WELCOME TO
THE TUESDAY JULY 15TH TWENTY
TWENTY FIVE REGULAR MEETING
OF THE ANN ARBOR PLANNING
COMMISSION FOR DETAILED
INFORMATION THE ONE MEETING
PROCEDURES PLEASE REVIEW THE
FOUR PRINTED MEETING AGENDA
PROVIDED THEY ARE AT EACH END
OF THE DAIS AND YOU CAN GET UP
AND GET ONE NOW MANAGER KELLY,
WOULD YOU PLEASE CALL THE ROLL
NOTING THAT CHARLIE IS ABSENT
THIS EVENING?
>> COMMISSIONER RIGHT HERE
COMMISSIONER HAMMERSCHMIDT HERE
,COMMISSIONER EVANS HERE
COUNCIL MEMBER DISH HERE.
COMMISSIONER MILLS HERE.
COMMISSIONER WHETHER IT BE
HERE, COMMISSIONER ADAMS HERE,
COMMISSIONER NORTON HERE YOU
HAVE A QUORUM.
>> THANK YOU.
MAY I HAVE A MOTION TO APPROVE
THE AGENDA MOVE BY COMMISSIONER
ABRAMS SECONDED BY COMMISSIONER
MILLS ALL THOSE IN FAVOR OF THE
MOTION PLEASE SAY I ANY OPPOSE
THE MOTION CARRIES.
MAY I HAVE A MOTION TO APPROVE
THE MINUTES OF THE JULY FIRST?
TWENTY TWENTY FIVE DAY MOVE BY
COUNCIL MEMBER DISH SECONDED BY
COMMISSIONER ABRAMS.
IS THERE ANY DISCUSSION OF THE
MINUTES SEEING NONE ALL THOSE
IN FAVOR OF THE MOTION PLEASE
SAY I OPPOSE THE MOTION CARRIES
.
>> NEXT UP OUR REPORTS TO THE
PLANNING COMMISSION AND WRITTEN
COMMUNICATIONS.
IF COUNCIL MEMBER DISH IS READY
WE WILL START WITH COUNCIL
MEMBER DISH.
THANK YOU.
I'M READY.
OK, SO I WANT TO TELL YOU THAT
AT THE JULY 7TH CITY COUNCIL
MEETING WE APPROVED THE SIX 625
CHURCH AND THREE OH THREE
DETROIT DEVELOPMENT AGREEMENTS
.
WE'VE GOT TWO MORE OF THOSE ON
THE UPCOMING MEETING.
LET'S TRY TO NOT HAVE TO SEND
THOSE TO CITY COUNCIL SILLY.
WE'VE ALREADY APPROVED
EVERYTHING SO AND THEN THE
TIMING WE ALSO APPROVED THE
TIMING OF THE ISSUANCE FOR THE
SOUTH HARBOR PROJECT OF OUR
ARBER S PROJECT.
>> THANK YOU.
>> AND THAT IS NOT APPROVING
THE BONDS.
IT'S NOT APPROVING ANYTHING.
IT WAS JUST APPROVING THE
TIMING SO WE WOULD ISSUE BONDS
AFTER THE FIRST PARKING
STRUCTURE IS BUILT AND THEN
BEFORE THE SECOND TO STRIKE
PARKING STRUCTURES WERE BUILT
IF WE EVER GET TO THAT STAGE
WITH THAT PROJECT BUT I WOULD
ALSO LIKE TO TELL YOU ABOUT
SOMETHING THAT HAS NOT YET
HAPPENED AT A COUNCIL MEETING
BUT IS COMING UP THIS COMING
MONDAY COUNCIL WILL VOTE ON
SORRY I HAVE TO NOW THERE WE
GO.
COUNCILOR ON A SECOND MEMO
OF DIRECTION TO THE PLANNING
COMMISSION REGARDING THE
COMPREHENSIVE LAND USE PLAN AND
I WANT TO TELL YOU SPECIFICALLY
WHAT WILL BE IN THAT I'M GOING
TO READ IT TO YOU BECAUSE IT
HASN'T PASSED COUNCIL AND SO
THAT WOULD BE STRANGE BUT
BECAUSE SOME OF THE THINGS THAT
ARE IN THIS BEAR ON OUR
DISCUSSION TONIGHT, I THINK IT
WOULD BE HELPFUL BOTH FOR
PEOPLE IN THE AUDIENCE AND
OBVIOUSLY FOR MY COLLEAGUES ON
PLANNING COMMISSION TO HEAR SO
THAT THE THE RESOLVED CLAUSES
ARE ALL FOLLOW AFTER THIS
STATEMENT THE CITY COUNCIL
REQUESTS THAT THE DRAFT
COMPREHENSIVE PLAN DRAFT PLAN
INCLUDE ALL RIGHT.
SO WE'RE MAKING A BUNCH
OF REQUESTS ABOUT STUFF THAT WE
HOPE TO SEE FIRST CLARIFICATION
THAT THE PLAN AND THE INTENDED
FUTURE LAND USE MAP HAS
INDICATED IT LAYS OUT ZONING
CATEGORIES.
EXCUSE ME, SIR.
WAKE UP.
IT LAYS OUT A LAND USE
CATEGORIES WHOSE REALIZATION
WILL INVOLVE >> MORE THAN THREE
ZONING DISTRICTS.
>> THE PLAN CURRENTLY HAS THREE
LAND USE CATEGORIES.
WE WANT IT TO BE CLEAR FOR
PEOPLE WHO ARE READING THE PLAN
THAT THIS IS NOT A ONE SIZE
FITS ALL ZONING, THAT THERE
WILL BE MULTIPLE ZONING
DISTRICTS IN SOME OF THOSE
POSSIBLY NOT IN THE HUB.
I DON'T KNOW.
NONE OF US KNOWS BUT WE DO KNOW
THAT THERE WILL BE MULTIPLE
ZONING DISTRICTS IN THOSE LAND
USE CATEGORIES SO THAT WE FEEL
WOULD BE A HELPFUL
CLARIFICATION.
>> I GUESS I SHOULD HAVE
PREFACED THIS WITH THIS THIS
RESOLUTION OFFERS DIRECTION IN
THE FORM OF A REQUEST TO I
THINK TRY TO HELP EXPECTATIONS
SET FOR THE REMAINDER OF PUBLIC
COMMENT A PUBLIC BROADLY
UNDERSTOOD THERE'S A LOT OF MIS
UNDERSTANDING ABOUT THE PLAN
AND WE THINK THAT SOME OF THAT
COULD BE HELPED BY
CLARIFICATION OF SOME OF THE
THINGS THAT WE KNOW BUT PEOPLE
DON'T AND WE FEEL LIKE WE KEEP
EXPLAINING THE SAME THINGS.
BUT TO BE HONEST, THERE'S ALSO
JUST A COUPLE OF PLACES WHERE
THESE TWO BODIES ARE NOT
ALIGNED AND SO SOME OF THE
PARTS OF THIS RESOLUTION HAVE
TO DO WITH WHAT WE THINK WE
DISAGREE ON AND WHAT WE HOPE
YOU WILL BRING US EVEN THOUGH
YOU MAY DISAGREE SO ON AND THEN
WE'D LIKE THE PLAN TO TO HAVE
TO HAVE DIRECTION IN IT THAT
WHEN THE RESIDENTIAL CATEGORY
IS ZONED INTO EXISTENCE IT CAN
UTILIZE TOOLS THAT ARE THAT ARE
KNOWN TO FIT HOUSING INTO
NEIGHBORHOOD CONTEXTS EXISTING
LOW RISE.
WE'RE NOT USING THAT
TERMINOLOGY ANYMORE BUT
RESIDENTIAL NEIGHBORHOOD AND
WE'RE NOT ASKING WE'RE NOT
ASKING THE PLAN TO COMMIT TO
ANY TOOLS BUT WE ARE ASKING FOR
IT TO NAME THINGS LIKE WE COULD
LIMIT POZOLE ASSEMBLAGE OR LOT
COMBINATIONS WHICHEVER YOU WANT
TO CALL IT.
THERE COULD BE SOME SET BACK
REQUIREMENTS COULD BE
MAINTAINED AND INCREASED
SETBACK REQUIREMENTS COULD BE
CONSIDERED FOR LARGER BUILDING
TYPOLOGIES.
STRUCTURES WILL BE REGULATED BY
BUILDING HEIGHT.
WE'VE ALREADY DEALT WITH THAT.
THERE ARE TOOLS THAT CAN
ENCOURAGE SMALLER, MORE
FLEXIBLE FORMS OF HOMES THAT
ARE MORE EFFICIENTLY USE LAND.
THERE'S THE ZONING PHASE COULD
SPECIFY MAXO AMOUNTS OF LOT
COVERAGE AND COULD SPECIFY THE
MAXIMUM STRUCTURE SIZE THROUGH
FLOOR AREA OR FLOREA RATIO.
SO WE'RE JUST PEOPLE WHEN WE
TELL PEOPLE THAT THERE THERE
ARE LOTS OF THINGS THAT CAN
HAPPEN WHEN THE PLAN IS
IMPLEMENTED THEY DON'T KNOW
WHAT THOSE THINGS ARE AND WE
FEEL THAT IT WOULD BE BOTH
INFORMATIVE AND POSSIBLY
REASSURING AND THEN FINALLY WE
WE WOULD LIKE TO SEE LIMITATION
OF THE TOTAL NUMBER OF UNITS
PER BUILDING AND OR A NUMBER
OF BEDS PER UNIT.
WE WOULD LIKE THE PLAN TO
ACKNOWLEDGE THAT THAT COULD BE
DONE AND WE OK, IT LOOKS LIKE I
THINK IT LOOKS LIKE THERE'S A
BULLET MISSING FROM THIS.
>> SO THERE OK SO IN TERMS
OF LIMITING THE TOTAL NUMBER
OF UNITS PER BUILDING AND OR
NUMBER OF BEDS PER UNIT.
>> OH YEAH NO IT'S JUST ME I
SKIPPED OVER REHME WE WE WANT
TO SEE DUPLEXES AND TRY PLEXUS
PROVIDED WIDESPREAD OPPORTUNITY
AND EASE OF DEVELOPMENT AND
WHERE LARGER BUILDING TYPOLOGY
ARE AUTHORIZED THEY WOULD BE
AUTHORIZED WHERE THEY WOULD FIT
INTO EXISTING NEIGHBORHOOD
CONTEXTS.
SO WE'RE NOT SAYING THAT
NOTHING LARGER THAT WE DON'T
WANT TO SEE THE PLAN OFFERING
THE OPPORTUNITY FOR NOTHING
LARGER THAN A DUPLEX OR TRIPLEX
BUT THAT THOSE ARE WHAT IS
PROVIDED EASE OF DEVELOPMENT
AND CONSIDERATION ABOUT WHETHER
TO GO LARGER IS HIGHLY
SENSITIVE TO CONTEXT.
SO WE'D LIKE THE PLAN TO MAKE A
RECOGNITION THAT THE ENROLLMENT
OF GROWTH OF THE UNIVERSITY
OF MICHIGAN HAS CREATED HOUSING
MARKET PRESSURE THAT'S
DIFFERENTIALLY DISTRIBUTED
THROUGHOUT THE CITY.
SOME PEOPLE JUST FEEL THAT THE
PLAN ACTS AS IF THE UNIVERSITY
IS NOT AN ACTOR IN WHAT IS
HAPPENING TO OUR HOUSING MARKET
AND SO WE WOULD LIKE THE PLAN
TO SAY THAT IT KNOWS THAT WE
WOULD LIKE A RECOMMENDATION
THAT THE AFFORDABILITY AND
SUSTAINABLE COMPONENT HEIGHT
EXCEPTIONS CURRENTLY PROVIDED
IN THE UDC BE REMOVED FROM THE
RESIDENTIAL CATEGORY DISTRICTS
CURRENTLY THEY ARE AVAILABLE
FOR RESIDENTIAL CATEGORY
DISTRICTS.
THEY ARE RARELY IF EVER USED IN
THOSE DISTRICTS CURRENTLY BUT
WE WE CERTAINLY ARE SEEING THEM
NOW AND SOME OF THE PROPOSALS
WE'RE GETTING BUT WE FEEL THAT
WE'VE TALKED ABOUT A THREE
STOREY LIMIT AND WE WANT PEOPLE
TO FEEL THAT THAT THERE'S NO
WHAT PEOPLE PERCEIVE AS A
LOOPHOLE.
I WOULDN'T CALL IT A LOOPHOLE
BUT WE WANT TO MAKE SURE THAT
PEOPLE UNDERSTAND THAT THAT'S A
HARD COMMITMENT BECAUSE THEY
ASKED US FOR IT AND THEN
THERE'S A RIGHT.
>> OK, SO THERE'S A COUPLE
OF THINGS THAT AREN'T REALLY
THAT INTERESTING.
BUT THEN THERE IS A DESIRE
WHICH I BELIEVE THAT WE HAVE
TALKED ABOUT VERY BRIEFLY TO
ACKNOWLEDGE THAT SHORT TERM
RENTAL USES CAN REDUCE
PERMANENT RESIDENT HOUSING
OPPORTUNITIES AND SO IF STARS
ARE GOING TO BE ALLOWED IN
TRANSITION, WE WANT TO MAKE
SURE THAT WE CAN CONSIDER
APPROPRIATE LIMITATIONS SO THAT
THE TRANSITION CATEGORY IS
DOING WHAT WE WANT IT TO DO,
WHICH IS MAKING MORE HOUSING
OPPORTUNITY FOR PERMANENT
RESIDENTS IN WALKABLE
NEIGHBORHOODS, NOT ALLOWING A
SORT OF OPEN SEASON FOR
DEVELOPMENT INVESTORS IN THE
CITY IF THAT'S IF THAT MAKES
SENSE.
SO THOSE ARE THE MAIN THINGS
THAT ARE IN IT.
THANK YOU, COUNCIL MEMBER
DEPUTY MANAGER
KELLY, DO YOU
HAVE A MANAGER'S REPORT FOR US?
I DO.
AND THE FIRST ITEM OF BUSINESS
WOULD BE TO INTRODUCE THE
PERSON TO MY RIGHT.
THIS IS PLANNING SERVICES
INTERN EMMA BERGER.
IT'S A MAP STUDENT CURRENTLY
MASTER OF URBAN PLANNING
STUDENT AT THE UNIVERSITY
OF MICHIGAN AND HELPING TO
PREPARE AN ANNUAL REPORT FOR
YOU ALL.
WE ALMOST HAD IT IN TIME FOR
THIS MEETING BUT IT WILL BE TO
AN UPCOMING MEETING.
SHE'S ALSO ASSISTING WITH SOME
COMPREHENSIVE PLAN TASKS.
SO I WOULD JUST LIKE TO
INTRODUCE HER SO THAT YOU CAN
SAY HELLO.
>> HELLO AND IS MOVING ON.
I WOULD LIKE TO SHARE THAT WE
HAVE I BELIEVE CLOSE THE THE
CALL FOR APPLICATIONS FOR OUR
ASSOCIATE PLANNER POSITION
OPENING WHICH WAS CREATED BY
MATT KOWALSKI'S RETIREMENT.
WE'RE REVIEWING THOSE NOW WE
HOPE IN THE COMING MONTH TO
HAVE SOME INTERVIEWS.
WE'RE DOING SOME PHONE SCREENS
.
WE HOPE TO BE INTRODUCING
ANOTHER SAFFER SOON.
THE CHANGES WHICH WERE
REQUESTED TO THE HOUSING
APPENDIX HAVE BEEN MADE.
THOSE ARE POSTED ONLINE TO THE
COMPREHENSIVE PLAN HUB PAGE AT
ENGAGER TODAY TO GET BIG AND
THEN BASED ON FEEDBACK FROM OUR
WORKING SESSION DISCUSSION A
COMMUNICATION FROM COMMISSIONER
SECTION HAS BEEN ADDED TO YOUR
AGENDA.
THIS IS WHERE YOU COULD RESPOND
TO PUBLIC COMMENT AFTER ADVICE
FROM OUR CITY ATTORNEY'S OFFICE
IT WAS ADVISED THAT WE STYLE IN
A SIMILAR WAY TO CITY COUNCIL'S
AGENDA THIS WOULD ALLOW YOU TO
RESPOND TO PUBLIC COMMENT
DURING THIS SECTION BUT IT
WOULDN'T SET THE EXPECTATION
THAT A RESPONSE IS ALWAYS
REQUIRED AND IT ALSO LEAVES A
LITTLE OPEN ENDED IF YOU WOULD
LIKE TO USE THAT SLOT FOR OTHER
BUSINESS LIKE INSTEAD OF FOR
EXAMPLE COMMISSION PROPOSED
BUSINESS.
BUT THE INTENTION IS TO HAVE IT
AVAILABLE FOR RESPONSES IF YOU
DESIRE.
THAT IS ALL I HAVE.
THANK YOU MANAGER KELLY.
WE NOW COME TO ITEM NUMBER SIX
ON THE AGENDA AND AGAIN FOR
THOSE OF YOU WHO HAVE JUST
ARRIVED, THERE ARE COPIES
OF THE PRINTED AGENDA ON EITHER
END OF THE DIESEN YOU CAN GRAB
ONE AT ANY TIME FOR THOSE
OF YOU THAT ARE IN THE CHAMBER
,WE'D LIKE TO REQUEST THAT YOU
KEEP YOUR SIDE COMMENTS
ACTUALLY QUITE QUIET.
YOU ARE PROBABLY UNAWARE WE CAN
HEAR VERY CLEARLY ALMOST
EVERYTHING THAT YOU'RE SAYING
AND IT DISTRACTS US FROM
HEARING THE SPEAKER WHO HAS AN
OPPORTUNITY ON THE FLOOR IF IT
DOES OCCUR DURING TONIGHT'S
MEETING, I WILL SUSPEND THE
PERSON WHO IS SPEAKING AND ASK
YOU TO SEE YOUR CONVERSATION IF
IT PERSISTS, I WILL ASK
PLANNING STAFF TO ESCORT YOU
OUT OF THE CHAMBER UNTIL THE
TIME YOU CAN RETURN SO THAT WE
MAY CONTINUE WITH OUR MEETING
IN AN ORDERLY AND FASHIONABLE
WAY.
SO WE NOW COME TO AN
OPPORTUNITY FOR INDIVIDUALS TO
SPEAK UP TO THREE MINUTES ON
ISSUES NOT LISTED AS A PUBLIC
HEARING ON THIS AGENDA.
WE WILL HEAR FIRST FROM THOSE
OF YOU WHO ARE PRESENT IN THE
CHAMBER.
THEN WE WILL HEAR FROM REMOTE
PARTICIPANTS TO SPEAK REMOTELY.
PRESS STAR NINE ON PHONE OR USE
THE RACE HAND FEATURE IN ZOOME
FOR PHONE ACCESS CALL EIGHT
SEVEN SEVEN EIGHT FIVE THREE
FIVE TO FOUR SEVEN AND PLEASE
IN OUR MEETING ID NINE SEVEN
SEVEN SIX SIX THREE FOUR ONE
TWO TWO SIX CITY STAFF WILL
IDENTIFY CALLERS BY THE LAST
THREE DIGITS OF THEIR PHONE
NUMBER OR BY NAME.
IF YOU'RE USING ZOOM YOU WILL
HEAR AN ANNOUNCEMENT WHEN IT'S
YOUR TURN TO SPEAK PLEASE MOVE
TO A QUIET AREA MUTE ANY
BACKGROUND NOISE FOR ALL
PARTICIPANTS IN THE CHAMBER AND
ONLINE.
PLEASE STATE YOUR NAME AND YOUR
ADDRESS AT THE BEGINNING
OF YOUR COMMENTS.
>> IS THERE ANYONE IN THE
CHAMBER WHO WOULD LIKE TO SPEAK
AT THIS TIME THROUGH COME RIGHT
UP AND AGAIN FOR THOSE OF YOU
WHO ARE SPEAKING AT THE DAIS
HERE THERE ARE THREE LIGHTS.
THERE'S A GREEN LIGHT.
YOU'RE GOOD TO GO.
THERE'S A YELLOW LIGHT START TO
WRAP IT UP.
THERE'S A RED LIGHT.
PLEASE STOP SO THAT WE CAN MOVE
AND HEAR FROM OTHERS.
SO WITH THAT WELCOME.
THANK YOU.
MY NAME IS RICARDO BARTOLOM.
I LIVE AT ELEVEN TWENTY BROOKS
STREET AND I THINK IT'S THE
FIFTH WARD IN FACT I KNOW IT'S
THE FIFTH WARD AND I'M REALLY
HEARTENED TO HEAR COUNCIL
MEMBER DISHES REPORT ABOUT CITY
COUNCIL'S CONCERNS ABOUT A
COMPREHENSIVE PLAN IN A SENSE
OF ADDRESS.
SOME OF MY CONCERNS.
SO THANK YOU VERY MUCH AND
OF COURSE I SUPPORT THE
COMPREHENSIVE PLAN AND MANY
OF THE GOALS I DO HAVE ISSUE
WITH SOME OF THE DETAILS.
IT COMES DOWN TO GETTING
GRANULAR.
SO WHAT I'M CONCERNED ABOUT IS
THAT IF YOU ALLOW A THREE
STOREY MULTIFAMILY BUILDING
APARTMENT, WHATEVER IN SOME
AREAS WHERE I LIVE YOU WILL
COMPLETE DESTROY THE CHARACTER
OF THE NEIGHBORHOOD AND IT MAY
BE FITTING THE PLAN IN TERMS
OF BEING ABLE TO DO THAT AND
GET DENSITY.
BUT THERE'S A SECTION OF THE
WEST SIDE OF BROOKS STREET
UPPER LEVEL CLOSE TO SUMMIT
THAT'S A ROW A SINGLE STORY
BRANCH IS THERE AND TO PUT A
THREE STOREY BUILDING THAT
DOESN'T HONOR THE SETBACKS WILL
BE A MONSTROSITY COMPARED TO
EVERYTHING ELSE.
SO AND I'M CONCERNED THAT
DETAILS GRANULAR THINGS LIKE
THAT WILL NOT BE ATTENDED TO
BECAUSE IT REQUIRES SO MUCH
EFFORT AND TIME AND WILLINGNESS
BY MORE THAN ONE PARTY TO
REALLY LOOK AT THE PLAN AND GO
ON SITE AND SEE WHAT THE
CONCERNS WOULD BE.
THERE ALSO INCLUDE IF A SINGLE
FAMILY, A SINGLE STORY HOUSE
HAS SOLAR PANELS AND IF YOU
BUILD EVEN A TWO STORY HOUSE
NEAR IT IT MIGHT INTERFERE WITH
THE SOLAR PANELS.
SO THAT'S A CONCERN I HAVE THE
OTHER CONCERN I HAVE IS THE
TREES AND I KNOW THERE'S SOME
TYPE OF REGULATIONS REGULATION
THAT YOU CAN HAVE.
YOU'RE SUPPOSED TO PLANT THE
NUMBER OF TREES THAT YOU'VE
TAKEN OUT.
BUT I'VE SEEN EXAMPLES WHERE IT
WAS THE DEVELOPER JUST PUT THEM
IN AND THEN AND FOLLOW THE
LETTER OF THE LAW OR THE LETTER
OF THE REGULATION.
BUT THE TREES ARE TOO CLOSE
OBVIOUSLY AND CONSULT WITH AN
ARBITER ARBORISTS AND IT REALLY
IS CHOKING THE TREES.
SO THOSE ARE MY CONCERNS ALL
THE TIME I HAVE RIGHT NOW TO
SAY ANYTHING.
THANK YOU VERY MUCH.
>> THANK YOU
.
>> HELLO MY NAME IS IT AT FIVE
TWENTY EIGHT NORTH ST. AND I'D
LIKE TO TALK ABOUT INDUSTRIAL
USES IN THE LAST VERSION
OF THIS PLAN THERE IS A FLECK'S
DISTRICT AND SUBDISTRICT IN A
TRANSITION DISTRICT THAT ALL
LISTED LIGHT INDUSTRIAL USES AS
PERMITTED USES THOSE CATEGORIES
IN THIS VERSION HALBERTAL SAYS
LIGHT INDUSTRIAL BUT TRANSITION
SAYS INDUSTRIAL STRAIGHTFORWARD
INTERPRETATION THAT I HAVE FOR
THAT IS THAT TRANSITIONAL BUT
WITH HEAVY INDUSTRIAL AND LIGHT
INDUSTRIAL AND I THINK THAT
WOULD BE A MISTAKE TO ALLOW
HEAVY INDUSTRIAL USES
THROUGHOUT MOST THE CITY.
>> SO I WOULD JUST CHANGE THAT
TO LIGHT INDUSTRIAL I.
I THINK THAT IF IT SAYS HEAVY
INDUSTRIAL THEN CITY COUNCIL
MIGHT FEEL SOME PRESSURE TO
CREATE A SEGREGATED SEPARATE
AREA FOR ALL INDUSTRIAL USES
AND I DON'T THINK THAT WOULD BE
A GOOD IDEA EITHER.
>> AND AT THE LAST MEETING
CHAIR LEE GAVE AN EXAMPLE
OF SRIRACHA SRIRACHA FACTORY
THE HOT SAUCE MANUFACTURER AND
I THINK THAT CASE IS ACTUALLY A
REALLY GOOD EXAMPLE.
I LOOKED INTO THAT AND IN
IRWINDALE, CALIFORNIA, SRIRACHA
OPENED A FACTORY AND IT'S IN AN
EMPTY HEAVY INDUSTRIAL
DISTRICT.
SO THERE'S NO HOUSING ALLOWED
IN THAT DISTRICT BUT IT'S NEAR
A SINGLE FAMILY RESIDENTIAL
DISTRICT AND THE NEIGHBORING
MUNICIPALITY.
SO THAT IDEA OF JUST CREATING A
SEPARATE DISTRICT DIDN'T STOP
THE SERIOUS INDUSTRIAL NUISANCE
FROM HARMING RESIDENTS.
AND IF YOU HAVE A NARROW STRIP
OF LAND ON S INDUSTRIAL RIGHT
NEXT TO RESIDENTIAL
NEIGHBORHOODS NOT EVEN ACROSS
THE STREET, YOU COULD HAVE THAT
VERY SAME LAND USE CONFLICT
PROBLEM.
SO I THINK YOU CAN FIX THAT
JUST BY SAYING WHITE INDUSTRIAL
AND SAYING THAT SAFE INDUSTRIAL
USES ARE GOING TO BE ALLOWED IN
TRANSITION AND HUB AND
DANGEROUS HEAVY INDUSTRIAL USES
ARE GOING TO BE ALLOWED
ANYWHERE BECAUSE EVEN ON NORTH
WHICH IS THE ONLY PRIVATELY
OWNED LAND ZONED INDUSTRIAL AND
ANN ARBOR NOW YOU HAVE AAGOT
DOCKS, YOU HAVE HOUSING ACROSS
THE STREET, YOU HAVE A NURSING
HOME IN THE OFFICE DISTRICT
ACROSS FROM THERE.
SO I WOULD JUST REALLY
RECOMMEND CHANGING THAT TO
LIGHT INDUSTRIAL AND I WOULD
REALLY AGREE WITH COMMISSIONER
NORTON'S POINT AT THE LAST
MEETING THAT WE SHOULD NOT BE
PRIORITIZING FLEXIBILITY FOR
INDUSTRIAL USES TO MINIMIZE
COMPLAINTS.
WE SHOULD BE PRIORITIZING THE
HEALTH AND SAFETY OF ANAPRA
RESIDENTS.
SO THAT'S IT AND THANK YOU.
THANK YOU
.
HELLO HELLO I'M SUSAN KAUFMAN.
I LIVE AT SIX THIRTY FIFTH
STREET.
I'M HERE TO ADDRESS TWO PRIMARY
CONCERNS ABOUT A COMPREHENSIVE
LAND USE PLAN LOSS OF WORKFORCE
HOUSING AND THE ADEQUACY
OF BASIC INFRASTRUCTURE.
I'M VERY CONCERNED THAT THE
ELIMINATION OF SINGLE FAMILY
ZONING WILL HAVE THE PERVERSE
EFFECT OF GENTRIFICATION AND
DISPLACEMENT IN WHAT ARE NOW
OUR MORE MODESTLY PRICED
NEIGHBORHOODS.
A BIG PORTION OF OUR CURRENT
WORKFORCE HOUSING DESPITE THE
ALARMING SPEED AT WHICH ANN
ARBOR IS BECOMING A RICH
PERSON'S TOWN, WE DO STILL HAVE
NUMEROUS NEIGHBORHOODS
OF SMALLER HOMES AT LOWER
THOUGH NOT LOW PRICES.
I FEAR THAT DEVELOPERS WILL
TARGET PRECISELY THOSE
NEIGHBORHOODS AND THAT WHATEVER
MARKET RATE DENSER PROJECTS
REPLACE THOSE HOUSES WILL NOT
BE AFFORDABLE.
ALTHOUGH THE PLAN TOUTS EQUITY
AND AFFORDABILITY AS PRIMARY
VALUES, THERE'S NOT MUCH IN IT
THAT DELIVERS ON THOSE
COMMITMENTS.
I DO NOT BUY THE TRICKLE DOWN
ARGUMENT.
I LIVE IN A NEIGHBORHOOD OF ONE
HUNDRED TO ONE HUNDRED AND
FIFTY YEAR OLD HOUSES AND I
ASSURE YOU THEY ARE NOT
BECOMING MORE AFFORDABLE AS
THEY AGE.
IT IS NOT UNCOMMON NOW TO SEE
HOUSES SELL FOR EIGHT HUNDRED
THOUSAND TO A MILLION IN WHAT
WAS A NEIGHBORHOOD OF WORKERS
COTTAGES.
I APPRECIATE THAT THERE ARE
AFFORDABLE UNITS IN THE
PIPELINE BUT THEY'RE NOT ENOUGH
TO MAINTAIN LET ALONE INCREASE
ECONOMIC DIVERSITY AGAINST THE
TIDE OF UPSCALE BUILDING WE'RE
CURRENTLY EXPERIENCING AND THAT
UP ZONING WILL INTENSIFY.
SECONDLY, I'VE READ THAT THE
PLAN IS MEANT AS A VISIONARY
DOCUMENT UNCONSTRAINED BY THE
REALITIES OF INFRASTRUCTURE.
BUT WE LIVE IN THE REAL WORLD
OF AGING INFRASTRUCTURE AND
VERY REAL CONSTRAINTS ON
EXPANSION.
I'M AMAZED THAT ONLY NOW
SEVERAL YEARS INTO THE PLANNING
PROCESS ARE WE CONDUCTING AN
ASSESSMENT OF WATER USE AND
WASTEWATER TREATMENT CAPACITY.
THE PLAN SEEMS TO INDICATE A
STEP BY STEP APPROACH IN WHICH
AS NEW DEVELOPMENT PLACE MORE
DEMAND ON INFRASTRUCTURE, THE
CITY WILL FIGURE OUT HOW TO
SUPPLY AND PAY FOR THAT NEW
CAPACITY.
I UNDERSTAND IS THAT THE WATER
TREATMENT PLAN IS PLANT IS
CLOSE TO CAPACITY AND CANNOT BE
EXPANDED AT ITS CURRENT
LOCATION.
THE WASTEWATER TREATMENT PLANT
HAS LIMITED CAPACITY TO HANDLE
GROWTH AND WE CAN'T DRAW DOWN
MUCH IF ANY MORE WATER FROM THE
HURON RIVER.
THESE ARE MAJOR OBSTACLES TO
GROWTH.
SHOULDN'T WE BE DOING SERIOUS
PLANNING TO ADDRESS THOSE
CHALLENGES NOW INCLUDING A
MECHANISM TO FINANCE EXPANSION
BEFORE LAUNCHING A PLAN
INTENDED TO DOUBLE THE
POPULATION OF THE CITY?
THANK YOU FOR YOUR
CONSIDERATION.
>> THANK YOU
AND I'M PLEASED TO
BE AANESTAD AND I LIVE ON A
TWENTY TEN FREEZE IN ANN ARBOR
AND MY INTEREST IS PARKING
STRUCTURES SO IT WILL TAKE A
LITTLE CHANGE OF VENUE HERE.
I CLEARLY REMEMBER YEARS AGO
WHEN THE CITY INVESTED IN
DOWNTOWN PARKING STRUCTURES.
I ALSO REMEMBER WATCHING THEM
CRUMBLE DUE TO LACK
OF MAINTENANCE.
THE STRUCTURE STARTED TO CRACK
AND CRUMBLE AND LOOK MORE
PITIFUL AS THE YEARS WENT BY.
FINALLY THEY WERE SOLD AND
GIVEN TO THE SOLD OR GIVEN TO
THE DOWNTOWN DEVELOPMENT
AUTHORITY AND THE NEEDED
REPAIRS BEGAN.
WHEN I WAS LOOKING AT THE
REPAIRS I HAPPENED TO ASK ONE
OF THE WORKERS WHY IT WAS ALL
THIS REPAIR NECESSARY.
HE REPLIED THAT THE REASON FOR
THIS DAMAGE TO PARKING
STRUCTURES WAS THAT THE CITY
FAILED TO WASH THEM OUT, WASH
OUT THE SALT THAT ACCUMULATED
DURING THE WINTER.
HE ALSO MENTIONED THAT THAT IF
HE WAS IN CHARGE HE WOULD HAVE
THE FIRE DEPARTMENT WASH THEM
OUT AT THE END, SAVE THE CITY
COST OF BEING ON THE HOOK FOR
THE MONEY.
I NOW READ THAT AND I KNOW THAT
ANN ARBOR IS AGAIN THINKING
OF GETTING INTO THE PARKING
STRUCTURE BUSINESS.
THE NEW PROJECT WILL COST TEN
BILLION AND BE PAID BACK AND A
REALLY COMPLICATED MANNER, THE
RESULT OF WHICH MAY BE THAT THE
CITIZENS WILL BE ON THE HOOK
FOR THE MONEY.
MY FEELING IS THAT OXFORD
PROPERTIES NEEDS THE IF THEY
NEED THE PARKING STRUCTURE THEY
SHOULD BUILD THEM IN A WAY
HOLDING BACK THEIR CONSTRUCTION
OF THEIR DEVELOPMENT UNTIL THE
CITY PAYS FOR THE PARKING
STRUCTURES IS LIKE A MAFIA
SHAKEDOWN FOR OUR CITY.
THIS MONEY COULD BE BETTER
SPENT ON PROJECT LIKE REPAVING
BRACKMAN, PROVIDING MORE
SUPPORT FOR THE DISADVANTAGED
OR REPLACING SOME OF THE
SERVICES THAT WILL BE CUT AS
THE BUDGETS COME FROM
WASHINGTON.
THANK YOU VERY MUCH.
THANK YOU.
GOOD EVENING.
MY NAME IS JEFF CROCKETT AND
WHILE I LIVE AT FIVE OR SIX
EAST KINGSLEY IN AN OUTDOORSY
NEIGHBORHOOD, I RESPECT THE
PREFERENCES OF THOSE WHO CHOOSE
TO LIVE IN SINGLE FAMILY
NEIGHBORHOODS.
BUT BEFORE I CONTINUE I JUST
WANT TO SAY I'M HERE TO DISCUSS
MY CONCERN ABOUT THE
COMPREHENSIVE LAND USE PLAN BUT
THAT DOES NOT DIMINISH MY
RESPECT FOR ALL OF YOU AND ALL
THE TIME YOU'VE SPENT IN
READING ALL THE EMAILS AND
LISTENING.
SO THANK YOU ON PAGE THIRTY
EIGHT OF THE COMPREHENSIVE USE
PLAN LAND USE PLAN THERE IS THE
FOLLOWING STATEMENT ABOUT
QUALITY OF LIFE RESIDENTS
CONSISTENTLY EXPRESSED
APPRECIATION FOR THE STRONG
QUALITY OF LIFE THAT ANN ARBOR
OFFERS THROUGH ITS VIBRANT
NEIGHBORHOODS, ABUNDANT PARKS
AND RECREATIONAL SPACES,
EMPLOYMENT OPPORTUNITIES AND
OTHER VALUED AMENITIES.
HOWEVER, THERE IS CONCERN THAT
AS A CITY GROWS AND EVOLVES THE
VERY CHARACTERISTIC THAT MAKES
ANN ARBOR SPECIAL COULD BE AT
RISK OF BEING LOST.
AND IT SEEMS TO ME THAT ONE
OF THE CHARACTERISTICS THAT
MAKES ANN ARBOR SPECIAL FOR
MANY NOT ALL FAMILIES IS SINGLE
FAMILY NEIGHBORHOODS ABSENT
FROM THE SURVEY IS THE FEEDBACK
FROM PARENTS WITH CHILDREN WHO
LIVE IN SINGLE FAMILY
NEIGHBORHOODS RIGHT NOW WE'RE
ALL TAKING CARE OF THEIR KIDS.
THEY CAN ATTEND THESE SESSIONS
AND EXPRESS THEIR.
AND EXPRESS THEIR CONCERNS.
THEY CAN ATTEND THESE SESSIONS
HOW DO YOU THINK PARENTS WITH
AND EXPRESS THEIR CONCERNS.
CHILDREN WOULD FEEL ABOUT A
HOW DO YOU THINK PARENTS WITH
HOUSE NEXT DOOR BEING
CHILDREN WOULD FEEL ABOUT A
DEMOLISHED AND REPLACED WITH
HOUSE NEXT DOOR BEING
THE MULTIPLEX?
DEMOLISHED AND REPLACED WITH
IMAGINE THE DISRUPTION, THE
THE MULTIPLEX?
CONSTRUCTION AND STREETS BEING
IMAGINE THE DISRUPTION, THE
TORN UP FOR NEW SEWERS WHICH
CONSTRUCTION AND STREETS BEING
HASN'T REALLY BEEN DISCUSSED
TORN UP FOR NEW SEWERS WHICH
HERE YET IN TERMS OF ALL THE
HASN'T REALLY BEEN DISCUSSED
THINGS THAT NEED TO HAPPEN FOR
HERE YET IN TERMS OF ALL THE
MORE DENSITY THE MULTIPLEX
THINGS THAT NEED TO HAPPEN FOR
IMAGINE THE DISRUPTION.
MORE DENSITY THE MULTIPLEX
HOW WOULD THEY FEEL ABOUT 12
IMAGINE THE DISRUPTION.
NEW STRANGERS LIVING NEXT DOOR?
HOW WOULD THEY FEEL ABOUT 12
I CONCERN AT THE INCREASED
NEW STRANGERS LIVING NEXT DOOR?
DENSITY MAY PROMPT SOME PARENTS
I CONCERN AT THE INCREASED
WITH CHILDREN TO MOVE OUT
DENSITY MAY PROMPT SOME PARENTS
OF THEIR COMMUNITIES WITH
WITH CHILDREN TO MOVE OUT
SINGLE FAMILY NEIGHBORHOODS.
OF THEIR COMMUNITIES WITH
ALTERNATELY, PARENTS WITH
SINGLE FAMILY NEIGHBORHOODS.
CHILDREN MOVING INTO THE AREA
ALTERNATELY, PARENTS WITH
MAY OPT FOR CHELSEA AND CELINE
CHILDREN MOVING INTO THE AREA
WHERE A SINGLE FAMILY
MAY OPT FOR CHELSEA AND CELINE
NEIGHBORHOODS ARE PARTICULARLY
WHERE A SINGLE FAMILY
POPULAR.
NEIGHBORHOODS ARE PARTICULARLY
ALL OF THIS WILL IMPACT THE
POPULAR.
SCHOOL ENROLLMENT IN ANN ARBOR,
ALL OF THIS WILL IMPACT THE
WHICH ALREADY HAS BEEN
SCHOOL ENROLLMENT IN ANN ARBOR,
DECLINING.
WHICH ALREADY HAS BEEN
WHO WILL BE MOVING INTO THESE
DECLINING.
MULTIPLEXES?
WHO WILL BE MOVING INTO THESE
IT SEEMS HIGHLY UNLIKELY THAT
MULTIPLEXES?
FAMILIES WOULD CONSIDER A
IT SEEMS HIGHLY UNLIKELY THAT
MULTIPLEX WITH NO PRIVATE
FAMILIES WOULD CONSIDER A
BACKYARD.
MULTIPLEX WITH NO PRIVATE
IT WOULD BE INTERESTING TO HEAR
BACKYARD.
THE EXPERIENCES THOUGH
IT WOULD BE INTERESTING TO HEAR
OF PEOPLE WHO CURRENTLY LIVE
THE EXPERIENCES THOUGH
NEXT MULTIPLEXES.
OF PEOPLE WHO CURRENTLY LIVE
ALL OF THIS SUGGESTS THAT THE
NEXT MULTIPLEXES.
COMPREHENSIVE LAND PLAN SHOULD
ALL OF THIS SUGGESTS THAT THE
BE PAUSED TO ENGAGE THE PARENTS
COMPREHENSIVE LAND PLAN SHOULD
OF FAMILIES WITH CHILDREN AND
BE PAUSED TO ENGAGE THE PARENTS
TO ARTICULATE THE POTENTIAL
OF FAMILIES WITH CHILDREN AND
RISKS OF THIS DRAMATIC ZONING
TO ARTICULATE THE POTENTIAL
OR LAND USE CHANGE.
RISKS OF THIS DRAMATIC ZONING
SUPPORTERS OF INCREASED DENSITY
OR LAND USE CHANGE.
ARE QUICK TO POINT OUT THE
SUPPORTERS OF INCREASED DENSITY
POTENTIAL BENEFITS
ARE QUICK TO POINT OUT THE
OF ELIMINATING SINGLE FAMILY
POTENTIAL BENEFITS
NEIGHBORHOODS.
OF ELIMINATING SINGLE FAMILY
BUT THEY HAVE FAILED TO
NEIGHBORHOODS.
DOCUMENT THE POTENTIAL RISKS
BUT THEY HAVE FAILED TO
AND URBAN VOTERS DESERVE TO BE
DOCUMENT THE POTENTIAL RISKS
INFORMED ABOUT THE POTENTIAL
AND URBAN VOTERS DESERVE TO BE
SIDE EFFECTS BEFORE DECIDING ON
INFORMED ABOUT THE POTENTIAL
WHETHER TO SUPPORT THE CLUB.
SIDE EFFECTS BEFORE DECIDING ON
PLEASE PAUSE THE PLAN AND
WHETHER TO SUPPORT THE CLUB.
CONSIDER WAYS TO REDUCE THE
PLEASE PAUSE THE PLAN AND
RISK OF ZONING FOR PARENTS WITH
CONSIDER WAYS TO REDUCE THE
CHILDREN SO THE QUALITY
RISK OF ZONING FOR PARENTS WITH
OF THEIR LIFE IS PRESERVED THAT
CHILDREN SO THE QUALITY
SHOULD INCLUDE BEING MORE
OF THEIR LIFE IS PRESERVED THAT
SELECTIVE IN DETERMINING WHICH
SHOULD INCLUDE BEING MORE
AREAS SHOULD BE UPSON AND THANK
SELECTIVE IN DETERMINING WHICH
YOU SAM DISH FOR YOUR
AREAS SHOULD BE UPSON AND THANK
FLEXIBILITY ANNOUNCING THE
YOU SAM DISH FOR YOUR
FLEXIBILITY OF THE LAND USE SAY
FLEXIBILITY ANNOUNCING THE
THANK YOU AND THANKS TO YOU ALL
FLEXIBILITY OF THE LAND USE SAY
FOR YOUR CONSIDERATION.
THANK YOU AND THANKS TO YOU ALL
THANK YOU
.
HI MY NAME IS CHUCK RAHIME.
I'M A CANDIDATE IN THE 3RD WARD
NEXT YEAR IN THE ELECTION I
CERTAINLY DIDN'T PLAN TO BECOME
ONE AND THEN I READ THE
COMPREHENSIVE PLAN AND REALIZED
THAT LOTS OF PEOPLE IN EACH
ISSUE SHOULD RUN FOR OFFICE IN
IOWA BECAUSE WE'VE GOT TO
INFLUENCE THIS LAND USE PLAN
THAT IS NOT APPROPRIATE FOR OUR
CITY.
MR. COULD YOU STATE YOUR
ADDRESS PLEASE?
PACARD NINETEEN ELEVEN.
THANK YOU.
THIS THIS PLAN DOESN'T FIT OUR
WONDERFUL TOWN IT BUT BE FINE
FOR SOME OTHER CITY COUNCIL
NEEDS TO VOTE NO ON THIS PLAN
WHEN IT COMES UP TO VOTE IT'S
AN ATTRACTIVE PLAN FOCUSED ON
MONEY FLOW TO BIG BOY.
>> IT'S LARGELY FROM CHICAGO
AND IT'S MEAN HIGHER COSTS IN
ANN ARBOR FOR ALL OF US RENTERS
AND HOMEOWNERS AND IT WILL BE A
DISASTER FOR TREES WHICH IS MY
CENTRAL CONCERN IN THIS WHOLE
PROCESS.
THE MOST FUNDAMENTAL PROBLEM
WITH THIS COMPREHENSIVE PLAN IS
THAT IT DEMANDS THAT WE CHANGE
OUR VALUES.
>> THEY USE THE TERM RATHER
THAN RATHER THAN CARING ABOUT
THE TREES AND THE BEAUTY AND
THE CHARACTER OF ANN ARBOR WE
ARE SUPPOSED TO CARE ABOUT YOUR
NEW SPECIAL VALUES WHICH YOU
CAN INTERPRET IN ANY WAY THAT
YOU MIGHT HAPPEN TO WISH I
SUPPORT MORE MID-LEVEL HOUSING
AND FLEXIBLE ZONING A LOT OF IT
WITHOUT CHANGING OUR BASIC
PHILOSOPHY ABOUT THE VALUE
OF INNER HARBOR AND WITHOUT
CHANGING THE AMOUNT
OF RESIDENTIAL LAND WE DEVOTE
TO TREES, THE BUILDING SETBACKS
IN RESIDENTIAL ZONING CANNOT BE
REDUCED OR THIS WHOLE THING IS
EXPO'S AS A WAY TO KILL OFF
TREES IN A GREEDY BUT VALUE
DRIVEN EXERCISE.
SAVE TREES CITY THAT IS YOUR
JOB.
THANK GOD THAT THIS WILL BE
DECIDED ULTIMATELY BY THE
VOTERS WON'T IT NEXT YEAR AND
VOTERS IN ANN ARBOR ARE REAL
HARD TO FOOL.
THANK YOU SO MUCH.
THANK
HELLO MY NAME IS ANN
ARBOR.
I LIVE AT NINETEEN FIFTEEN
BOSTON AVENUE.
I'M HERE TONIGHT TO TALK ABOUT
ONE OF THE YOUR CORE VALUES
THAT YOU SAY IS PART OF THE
FRAMEWORK FOR DEVELOPING THE
COMPREHENSIVE LAND USE PLAN
EQUITY EQUITY REFERS TO
FAIRNESS OR JUSTICE IN THE WAY
THAT PEOPLE ARE TREATED AND TO
BE EQUITABLE REFERS TO ACTIONS
OR POLICIES THAT ENSURE
FAIRNESS.
HAVE ANY OF YOU PERSONALLY
THOUGHT ABOUT OR CONSIDERED
EQUITY WHEN IT COMES TO THE
RESIDENTS THAT LIVE IN ANN
ARBOR NOT THE ONES THAT YOU
PLAN TO BRING TO ANN ARBOR BUT
THE ONES THAT OWN RENT, PAY
TAXES AND INVESTED TIME AND
MONEY INTO THEIR HOMES,
NEIGHBORHOODS AND COMMUNITIES?
HAVE YOU THOUGHT ABOUT WHICH
NEIGHBORHOODS THEY'RE GOING TO
BE THE MOST VULNERABLE TO
DEVELOPMENT AND DEVELOPERS?
I DON'T THINK THAT YOU HAVE
BECAUSE IF YOU DID YOU WOULD
HAVE TO ADMIT THAT THIS TYPE
OF PLANNING IS NOT EQUITABLE
FOR ALL OF THE RESIDENTS OF ANN
ARBOR.
SOME RESIDENTS WILL BE SAFE
FROM THE PLAN BECAUSE THEY LIVE
IN HISTORIC DISTRICT, A
NEIGHBORHOOD WITH AN AWAY OR
THEIR NEIGHBORHOOD IS SIMPLY
TOO FAR AWAY FROM THE
UNIVERSITY.
I HAVE TWO MAPS HERE.
ONE HIGHLIGHTS THE HISTORIC
DISTRICTS IN ALL THE SINGLE
FAMILY NEIGHBORHOODS THAT HAVE
HOMES THEY ARE PROTECTED FROM
THE PLAN.
THEREFORE THEY HAVE AN
ADVANTAGE.
MY SECOND MAP HIGHLIGHTS WHERE
ALL THE STUDENT HOUSING ALREADY
EXISTS IN ANN ARBOR.
TAKE A LOOK AT THESE MASS.
WHICH NEIGHBORHOODS DO YOU
THINK ARE GOING TO BE THE MOST
AFFECTED BY THE PLAN?
IT'S NOT ROCKET SCIENCE ANY
OF THE NEIGHBORHOODS THAT
BORDER THE EXISTING STUDENT
NEIGHBORHOODS ARE GOING TO BE
TARGETED.
THESE ARE NEIGHBORHOODS LIKE
BERN'S PARK NORTH BERN'S PARK
OXBRIDGE WURSTER PARK,
AHMADINEJAD PARK LAUDERHILL
LOWERTOWN AND ALL THE
NEIGHBORHOODS ON THE SOUTH SIDE
OF STADIUM ON EITHER SIDE
PACARD THESE NEIGHBORHOODS HAVE
A DISADVANTAGE IF YOU LIVE IN
THE NEIGHBORHOODS THAT ARE
PROTECTED BY THE WAY I'M SORRY
TWO OF YOU LIVE IN
NEIGHBORHOODS THAT ARE
PROTECTED BY WAYS AND ONE LIVES
IN A HISTORIC DISTRICT.
THE PLANNING MANAGER DOESN'T
EVEN LIVE IN ARBOR.
TWO COUNCIL MEMBERS ARE
PROTECTED IN NEIGHBORHOODS WITH
WAYS AND TWO IN TWO RECENT TOWN
HALL DISCUSSIONS, TWO COUNCIL
MEMBERS STATED THAT THEIR
NEIGHBORHOODS ARE SAFE FROM
DEVELOPERS BECAUSE ONE LIVES IN
A NEIGHBORHOOD THAT IS TOO FAR
FROM THE UNIVERSITY AND ONE
NEIGHBORHOOD'S HOME VALUES FOR
TOO EXPENSIVE FOR DEVELOPERS.
HOW IS THIS EQUITABLE AND FAIR
TO ALL THE RESIDENTS OF ANN
ARBOR?
IT'S NOT IT IS NOT FAIR OR
EQUITABLE THAT ONLY A PORTION
OF THE RESIDENTS OF DENHA ARE
GOING TO TAKE THE BRUNT OF ALL
THE DEVELOPMENT DENSITY.
IT IS NOT A TO FOR ALL THIS
PLAN IS A TEST FOR SOME OF THE
PLAN.
GO BACK TO THE DRAWING BOARD,
GET TRUE COMMUNITY INPUT AND
STAY TRUE TO YOUR VALUE
OF EQUITY FOR ALL.
>> THANK YOU MAYOR AND I DO
HAVE A FEW PICTURES FOR YOU IF
YOU'D LIKE TO SEE WHAT IT'S
LIKE LIVING NEXT TO A STUDENT
HOUSING.
THANK YOU.
GOOD EVENING.
I'M KATHY GRISWOLD THREE FIVE
SIX FIVE BLOCKS DRIVE PINUS
FIRST OF ALL THANKS FOR JOINING
US.
>> THANK YOU.
I WANT TO EXTEND MY SINCERE
GRATITUDE TO THE MEMBERS OF THE
PLANNING COMMISSION AND ALL THE
CITIZENS WHO HAVE ACTIVELY
PARTICIPATED IN THE
COMPREHENSIVE PLANNING PROCESS.
YOUR CONTINUED ENGAGEMENT
WHETHER THROUGH SPEAKING AT
COUNCIL THE PLANNING COMMISSION
MEETINGS OR OFFERING VALUABLE
RECOMMENDATIONS IS TRULY
COMMENDABLE.
IT'S REGRETTABLE THAT THE
PLANNING COMMISSIONERS HAVE HAD
TO DEDICATE AN EXTRAORDINARY
AMOUNT OF TIME FOR PUBLIC
INPUT.
THIS IN MY VIEW IS A DIRECT
CONSEQUENCE OF A FLAWED PROCESS
AND A LACK OF EFFECTIVE
LEADERSHIP AND IDEAL PLANNING
PROCESS PROCESS SHOULD FOSTER
UNITY NOT DIVISION WITHIN OUR
COMMUNITY.
THIS RESPONSIBILITY ULTIMATELY
RESTS WITH OUR MAYOR AND THOSE
OPERATING BEHIND THE SCENES AS
A COUNCIL MEMBER I OBSERVE THIS
PROCESS UNFOLD WITH SIGNIFICANT
CONCERN PARTICULARLY REGARDING
ITS LACK OF TRANSPARENCY AND
OVERLY PRESCRIPTIVE NATURE.
THE QUESTION BEFORE US IS
WHETHER ANN ARBOR IS WILLING TO
ACCEPT AN AUTOCRATIC TOP DOWN
FORM OF GOVERNMENT BASED ON THE
ROBUST CITIZEN INVOLVEMENT.
I BELIEVE OUR COMMUNITY DESIRES
AN EFFECTIVE AND RESPONSIVE
GOVERNMENT.
THE LONG TERM CONSEQUENCES
OF THIS APPROACH MAY NOT BE
FULLY APPARENT FOR DECADES.
HOWEVER, I AM PARTICULARLY
FAMILIAR WITH ANN ARBOR
TRANSPORTATION PLANNING AND
ESPECIALLY THE OPERATION OF OUR
TRANSPORTATION SYSTEM FOR OUR
PEDESTRIANS DESPITE SPENDING
MILLIONS OF DOLLARS MUCH OF IT
FROM GRANTS PAID TO CONSULTANTS
,OUR PEDESTRIAN CRASH RATE IS
NOW AT ITS HEIGHT AT ITS
HIGHEST LEVEL IN OVER A DECADE.
THIS STANDS IN STARK CONTRAST
TO THE STATE'S OVERALL CRASH
RATE, WHICH IS SLIGHTLY
DECREASED.
THE STATE IS USING SOMETHING
CALLED A SAFE SYSTEMS APPROACH
TO GET TO VISION ZERO GOALS.
WE HAVE NOT ADOPTED THAT YET
AND WHILE I UNDERSTAND ANY
FRUSTRATION YOU FEEL IT IS
CRUCIAL TO DIRECT IT TOWARDS
THOSE TRULY ACCOUNTABLE.
AGAIN, THAT IS THE MAYOR AND
HIS SUPPORTERS.
I URGE YOU TO PAUSE THIS PLAN
AND DEMAND A PROPER PROCESS ONE
THAT GENUINELY BRINGS ANN ARBOR
RESIDENTS CLOSER TO AGREEMENT
RATHER THAN PERPETUATING THE
DIVISIVE AND DISHONEST PATH WE
CURRENTLY ARE ON.
>> THANK YOU.
THANK YOU.
>> GOOD EVENING.
MY NAME IS ELLEN RAMSBURG AND I
LIVE AT FIFTY THREE CAMBRIDGE
ROAD.
I WROTE AN EMAIL TO YOU ALL
THAT ARRIVED BEFORE YOUR
MEETING LAST WEEK COMMENTING
ABOUT THE CITIZEN PARTICIPATION
OR AND WHAT I WANTED TO SAY WAS
THAT THIS KIND OF PARTICIPATION
THAT YOU'RE SEEING NOW IS WHAT
YOU SHOULD HAVE ENCOURAGED AND
SEEN AT THE BEGINNING OF THIS
PROCESS AND AS TEDIOUS AND LONG
AS THE PUBLIC COMMENTARIES ARE
NOW, THAT IS WHAT DEMOCRATIC
DISCOURSE IS ALL ABOUT AND THIS
IS WHAT YOU ARE FINALLY
BEGINNING TO GET.
THIS IS WHY WE'VE ASKED THAT
YOU PAUSE A PLAN SO THAT YOU
CAN CONTINUE TO HEAR FROM THE
PUBLIC SO THAT YOU CAN CONTINUE
TO ENGAGE WITH THE PUBLIC.
AND I DID LISTEN LAST WEEK TO
YOUR DISCUSSION BYLAWS AND THE
CONSIDERATION OF LIMITING
PUBLIC COMMENTS TO TWO MINUTES
AND PERHAPS LIMITING THE TIME
AT THE BEGINNING OF THE MEETING
TO ONE HOUR I UNDERSTAND THAT
CITY COUNCIL DECIDED THAT THEY
WOULD NOT DO THAT WITH THE
SUSTAINABILITY COMMISSION.
I WOULD HOPE THAT YOU WOULD NOT
DO THAT BECAUSE THIS IS REALLY
WHAT YOU NEED TO BE HEARING AS
UNCOMFORTABLE AND AS TEDIOUS AS
IT IS YOU ARE FINALLY ENGAGING
WITH THE PUBLIC.
I APPRECIATE YOUR TIME.
I KNOW IT'S FRUSTRATING AT
TIMES BUT THIS REALLY IS WHAT
IS NEEDED TO HAPPEN.
THANK YOU VERY MUCH.
THANK.
>> GOOD EVENING.
GOOD EVENING MR. CHIRAC.
I LIVE IN WARD ONE.
I LIVE IN THE CROSSINGS FIVE
SIX SIX KELLOGG APARTMENT B MY
NEIGHBORHOOD IS ONE OF THOSE.
IT IS IN A TRANSITION DISTRICT
AND THAT IS OF GREAT CONCERN TO
ME AND THAT'S WHY I'M HERE AND
SOME OF MY NEIGHBORHOOD IS
EIGHTY ONE THOUSAND.
THE MEDIAN MEDIUM HOME IS FIVE
HUNDRED AND FIFTY THOUSAND.
MY POINT IS THAT THAT IS
AFFORDABLE THAT THAT'S ONE
OF THE FEW POCKETS
OF AFFORDABILITY IN ANN ARBOR.
IT IS AFFORDABLE AND IF YOU'RE
ON PONTIAC TRAIL FROM LONG QADR
DAVOREN, YOU KNOW, I DON'T KNOW
IF ALL OF YOU ARE FAMILIAR WITH
THAT NEIGHBORHOOD OR NOT.
I'M NOT ASSUMING ANYTHING IF
YOU TAKE A RIDE UP A PONTIAC
TRAIL, IT'S IT'S OBVIOUS IF YOU
GO INTO THOSE NEIGHBORHOODS
WERE VERY MIDDLE MIDDLE THERE'S
NOT A WEALTHY NEIGHBORHOOD NO,
NOT WEALTHY.
SO MY POINT IS THAT WE ALREADY
HAVE UNAFFORDABLE
NEIGHBORHOODS.
IT IS WALKABLE.
IT'S GONE.
THE BUS ROUTE IS EVERYTHING THE
PROPOSAL HEADS TOWARDS.
IT'S MULTIPLE HOUSING.
SO I'M I'M CONFUSED THE MAP AND
THE WORDING DOESN'T MATCH TO ME
.
SO THAT'S A MAJOR CONCERN THAT
I HAVE.
IN FACT, THEY'RE OPPOSITES AT
LEAST IT'S ONLY NATURAL IN THIS
BIG OF A PROJECT THAT PEOPLE
ARE GOING TO GET CONFUSED.
OK, WE NEED CLARITY AND THAT'S
WHAT WE'RE ALL AFTER SHARE OUR
STREETS AS A WHOLE NEW MEANING
IF IF YOUR HOUSE IS IN A
TRANSITIONAL DISTRICT THAT
MEANS THEY WANT YOU TO MOVE.
I CAN'T AFFORD TO I CAN'T
AFFORD TO EVEN THINK ABOUT IT.
OH, I HAVE THREE QUESTIONS AND
THIS IS IN THE INTEREST
OF CLARITY.
FIRST OF ALL, DEFINE A UNIT.
I DON'T I JUST DON'T WANT TO
ASSUME YOU KNOW, IS IT A
BUILDING IS IN AN SFR SINGLE
FAMILY RESIDENCE SO DEFINE A
UNIT THE STRATEGY THE
SECOND
QUESTION IS THE THE PLAN IS FOR
THIRTY THREE THOUSAND UNITS AND
CORRECT ME IF I'M WRONG ON THAT
HOW DID WE GET TO THIRTY THREE
THOUSAND THAT'S A PRETTY BIG
NUMBER.
WHAT WAS THE STRATEGY, THE
REASONING, THE JUSTIFICATION
FOR 33 THOUSAND UNITS ON TOP
OF ALL THE CONSTRUCTION WE HAVE
NOW AND THE POPULATION
EXPECTATION FOR TWENTY FIFTY
WHAT IS THAT PROJECTED TO BE?
OBVIOUSLY I'M ASKING FOR A
RANGE SO BY 2050 WHAT WILL
ENABLE LOOK LIKE IN TERMS
OF POPULATION IF THIS PROPOSAL
IS ACCEPTED?
THANK YOU VERY MUCH FOR YOUR
TIME.
>> THANK YOU FOR SHOWING UP
THAT MEANS MORE THAN YOU COULD
EVER.
THANK YOU.
GOOD EVENING.
MY NAME IS PAUL GRIFFETH.
I LIVE AT FOURTEEN SEVENTY
WESTFIELD.
I WANT TO THANK EVERYBODY FOR
THEIR THEIR SERVICE AND ALL
THEIR TIME AND EFFORT.
I WANT TO THANK EVERYBODY WHO
MADE THE TIME TO COME DOWN HERE
AND SPEAK.
I'M I'M A BORN AND RAISED ANN
ARBOR GUY.
I GREW UP ON THE EAST SIDE WENT
TO PITTSFIELD SCARLET TEHRAN
UNIVERSITY MICHIGAN.
I'VE LIVED ON HILL STREET AND
WOODLAWN AND GRANGER AND GOLD
AND AND I'VE SEEN HOW THE CITY
HAS CHANGED OVER TIME AND I
UNDERSTAND THAT CHANGE IS
SOMETHING THAT THAT HAPPENS
PLANNING FOR THAT CHANGE IS
VERY IMPORTANT.
I'M HERE SPECIFICALLY TODAY TO
SPEAK TO THE THREAT TO OUR
CITIES GOLF COURSES THIS
MORNING I WAS DOWN HERE ON
HILLS AND THAT PARKING LOT WAS
PACKED AND IT WAS PACKED WITH
MANY SENIORS THAT WERE THERE
FOR A GOLF LEAGUE AND SOME
YOUNG CHILDREN THAT WERE THERE
PLAYING WITH WITH THE PARENT.
THE GOLF COURSES ARE MORE THAN
JUST A PLACE TO PLAY THE GAME
OF GOLF.
THE GOLF COURSES ARE A PLACE TO
WALK, TO BREATHE, TO APPRECIATE
THE TREES, THE WILDLIFE, THE
WILDFLOWERS THAT THAT LIVE
THERE.
IT'S A PLACE TO JOIN A
COMMUNITY TO MAKE NEW FRIENDS
AND IT'S A PLACE TO GET OUT AND
GET SOME FRESH AIR, GET SOME
EXERCISE.
THAT'S SOMETHING THAT EVERYBODY
SUPPORTS IN ANN ARBOR.
RECREATION IS SOMETHING IT'S
ALWAYS BEEN SUPER IMPORTANT IN
OUR CITY AND THE THOUGHT THAT
SOMETHING COULD HAPPEN TO THESE
SPECIAL PRECIOUS SPACES JUST IT
REALLY TEARS AT MY HEARTSTRINGS
.
I KNOW THAT I KNOW THAT THE
GROWTH IS COMING AND THE
THOUGHT THAT THESE PROTECTED
GREEN SPACES MAY BE THREATENED
IS JUST A TRAVESTY.
WE SPEND TEXT'S TAX DOLLARS TO
PROTECT GREEN SPACES OUTSIDE
OF OUR CITY.
WHY WE DON'T PROTECT THESE
GREEN SPACES WITHIN OUR CITY
LIMITS.
I KNOW WE HAVE AND I KNOW THAT
THAT'S PART OF THE CITY CHARTER
BUT I THINK EVERYBODY
UNDERSTANDS WHERE I'M COMING
FROM AND I JUST WANT TO THANK
YOU FOR YOUR TIME AND PLEASE
PLEASE PAUSE PLAN.
THANK THANK YOU
.
I'M JAMES T. MOORE AND I LIVE
IN THE DARLINGTON SUBDIVISION
IN THE THIRD WARD.
I NEVER ADDRESSED YOU
PREVIOUSLY IN REGARDS TO
CERTAIN ISSUES REGARDING THE
COMPREHENSIVE PLAN TECHNICAL
AND CONCERNS A LOT OF WHICH WAS
RAISED EARLIER HERE.
SO I WON'T NEED TO REPEAT IT.
I WANT TO SPEAK TONIGHT IN
TERMS OF PUBLIC COMMENTARY, IN
TERMS OF THE CHANGES YOU'RE
MAKING IN TERMS OF INPUT.
I'M NOT NOTICING VAST NUMBERS
OF PEOPLE NOW I THINK YOU'LL BE
ABLE TO GET TO BUSINESS
COMFORTABLY IN A SHORT ORDER.
I THINK THERE'S NO NEED TO MAKE
THE CHANGE HERE AS LONG AS
PEOPLE ARE BEING LISTENED TO.
I KNOW THAT MR. WESTFALL HAS
PRAISED YOU ON YOUR INSULARITY.
HE CERTAINLY SUPPORTS NEIGHBORS
FOR YOUR NEIGHBORS.
BUT I THINK WHAT'S IMPORTANT
YOU NEED TO THINK ABOUT THE
NATIVES THAT ARE HERE AND YOU
NEED TO ENGAGE THEM AS MUCH AS
POSSIBLE.
REVEREND, I APPRECIATE THE WORK
THAT YOU'RE DOING OUTSIDE IN
TERMS OF THE COMMUNITY AND LET
ME MAKE IT CLEAR IN TERMS
OF ENVIRONMENTAL JUSTICE AND IN
TERMS OF SOCIAL JUSTICE, THE
LAST THING YOU WANT TO DO IS
LIMIT PUBLIC INPUT WHEREVER IT
IS WE NEED TO EXPAND AS MUCH AS
POSSIBLE PUBLIC INPUT.
YES, IT'S PAINFUL.
YES.
IT'S VERY DIFFICULT SOMETIMES
SOMETIMES IT'S EMBARRASSING
WHILE SOME YOU EMBARRASSED
YOURSELVES BUT THAT'S ANOTHER
CONVERSATION.
WHAT NEEDS TO HAPPEN IS YOU
NEED TO HAVE AS MUCH PUBLIC
INPUT AS POSSIBLE AND THE LAST
THING YOU DO IS LIMIT PUBLIC
INPUT AS WHAT YOU'RE PLANNING
ON DOING DOESN'T SEEM TO BE
MUCH OF A PROBLEM THIS EVENING
ALSO I MEAN JUST TAKE A STEP
BACK THE CHANGES YOU'VE MADE
EVEN ON COMMISSION IN THE PAST
SEVERAL YEARS WITH LARGE
PARCELS COMING IN BEING
DEVELOPED LARGE LARGE
STRUCTURES YOU HAVE AN IMPACT
ON THE SEE THIS IN THE LAST NOT
JUST FOR DECADES BUT FOR
CENTURIES OBVIOUSLY YOU NEED AS
MUCH INPUT AS POSSIBLE INTO THE
PROCESS THAT MORE THAN EVER I
WOULD ALSO EVEN SAY THAT WHAT
IS DEEMED BY BY RIGHT.
I THINK IT'S BEEN A BIT OF A
STRETCH.
I THINK YOU GUYS NEED TO
REVISIT THAT AT ANY RATE, WHAT
YOU HAVE ISN'T BROKEN HERE IN
TERMS OF THE BYLAWS BEFORE YOU
HERE, LET'S KEEP PUBLIC INPUT
THE WAY IT IS AND LET'S REALLY
ENGAGE THE PUBLIC NOT ONLY IN
THE COMPREHENSIVE LAND USE PLAN
BUT IN TERMS OF THE ZONING,
PLANNING AND ZONING PROCESS IN
GENERAL WITH THAT THANK FOR
CONSIDERING MY REMARKS.
>> THANK YOU
.
HI, I'M RALPH KATZ.
SIX OR FIVE SKYTEL THE SUBJECT
MATTER IS ARCANE MOST PEOPLE
DON'T GET INVOLVED.
MOST PRESIDENTS IN THE PLANNING
PROCESS APPLAUD THE PEOPLE WHO
ARE HERE.
I SPOKE TWO WEEKS AGO.
I APPLAUD YOU FOR I BELIEVE
WE'RE MOVING THE CARTOONS FROM
THE I THINK IT WAS A VOTE TO
REMOVE THE CARTOONS.
I THINK THEY GOT IN THE WAY
OF UNDERSTANDING WHAT'S IN THAT
DOCUMENT AND ALLOWING PEOPLE TO
MAKE THEIR OWN DECISIONS.
I THINK YOU SHOULD ADD MORE
INFORMATION ABOUT GOALS,
DEVELOPMENT AND IF THERE WAS
NOT GOALS DEVELOPMENT THAT
INVOLVED THE PUBLIC THEN THAT
SHOULD BE ADDRESSED IF THERE'S
A VERSION A DRAFT FREE OF THIS
PLAN THAT'S NO SIN.
IF THERE'S A VERSION SIX OR
SEVEN, THAT'S NO SIN.
IF OUR COMMUNITY NEEDS ARE MET
ALL DAY IN OUR TOWN IT'S
SOMETHING I USED TO HEAR ALL
THE TIME AND SOMEONE HERE CAME
CLOSE TO THAT BUT I DON'T THINK
IT EXISTS ANYMORE.
THE TOWN THAT I REMEMBERED YOU
COULD LIVE YOUR WHOLE LIFE IN
THE DOWNTOWN AREA AND BUY
APPLIANCES, CARS, CLOTHING,
GROCERIES, WHATEVER YOU NEEDED.
NOW IT SEEMS IT'S ONLY
RESTAURANTS AND BARS AND THE
LEGITIMATE BUSINESSES ARE STILL
THERE ARE THERE ONLY BECAUSE
THEY OWN THEIR OWN BUILDINGS
AND THEY CAN CONTROL THE RENT
BY DOING THAT.
I THINK THIS NEW PLAN WILL MAKE
THAT EVEN MORE DIFFICULT.
>> I'M GLAD TO SEE THE CITY
COUNCIL IS PROVIDING FEEDBACK
TO THIS GROUP.
I HAVE TO SAY I DIDN'T
UNDERSTAND ANYTHING WHAT
COUNCILMAN DISH SAID I'LL HAVE
TO SEE THE LETTER IN PRINT THAT
CITY COUNCIL SINCE TO BE ABLE
TO PASS IT AND BUT I THINK THAT
PEOPLE WANT TO SEE THAT THEIR
CITY IS NOT BEING GIVEN AWAY
LOCK AND STOCK TO DEVELOPERS
THAT THERE ARE SOME PLACES IN
THE CITY THAT WILL REMAIN THE
SAME AND THIS NEEDS TO BE IN
THE PLAN.
AND I WOULD URGE YOU TO TO DO
THAT AND AS A HAM RADIO
OPERATOR, I'M USED TO WORKING
WITH A THREE MINUTE TIME OUT
TIMER.
>> THANK YOU.
THANK YOU.
CHAIR WINCH PLANNING COMMISSION
CAN GRAB TWENTY EIGHT HAMMER
GORDON THANK YOU FOR THE
OPPORTUNITY TONIGHT.
I'LL START WITH AGENDA ITEM
ELEVEN THE BYLAW CHANGES TO
PUBLIC COMMENT STAFF RECOMMENDS
CUTTING INDIVIDUAL PUBLIC
COMMENTS FROM THREE TO TWO
MINUTES HAD BEEN MENTIONED.
PLEASE REJECT THIS.
I KNOW THE MEETINGS AT MIDNIGHT
ARE A HUGE BURDEN ON EVERYONE
BUT THIS REVIEW ONLY STARTED
WITH THE COMPLINE AND WILL
PROBABLY END WITH IT AT LAST
WEEK'S WORKING SESSION TWO
ARGUMENTS WERE PUT FORTH FOR
LIMITING PUBLIC COMMENTS.
ONE WAS THAT THE CHANGE WOULD
ACTUALLY BENEFIT THE PUBLIC
BECAUSE SHORTER MEETINGS WOULD
MAKE THEM MORE ACCESSIBLE TO
THOSE WHO CAN'T MAKE IT OR WHO
HAVE TO LEAVE EARLY.
I'M PRETTY SURE NO ONE FROM THE
PUBLIC HAS EVER ASKED FOR LESS
COMMENT TIME IN ORDER TO
SHORTEN MEETINGS.
IT'S NOT IDEAL BUT PEOPLE WHO
CAN'T COME CAN INSTEAD CALL IN
THEIR COMMENTS FROM HOME CAN
WATCH MEETINGS
AND IN REAL TIME
OR ON YOUTUBE THE NEXT DAY.
THE SECOND ARGUMENT PUT FORTH
LAST WEEK WAS THAT OTHER CITIES
LIKE DETROIT AND MINNEAPOLIS
ONLY ALLOWED TWO MINUTES PER
COMMENT AND THAT'S TRUE.
BUT THOSE CITIES ARE OUTLIERS,
NOT BEST PRACTICE.
WHAT I FOUND IS THAT THE LARGE
MAJORITY OF PLANNING
COMMISSIONS ALLOW THREE MINUTES
OR MORE COMMENT GRAND RAPIDS
THREE MINUTES, FOUR INDIVIDUALS
SIX MINUTES, FOUR ORGANIZATIONS
.
WELL OK, THREE MINUTES EAST
LANSING NO TIME LIMIT.
PEOPLE GO FOR FOUR OR FIVE
MINUTES OR HOWEVER LONG THEY
NEED.
MADISON, WISCONSIN THREE
MINUTES BLOOMINGTON, INDIANA
FIVE MINUTES CITY OF BOULDER
PLANNING BOARD THREE MINUTES.
DENVER THREE MINUTES.
AUSTIN, TEXAS THREE MINUTES.
CHICAGO PLANNING COMMISSION
THREE MINUTES AND SO ON.
HERE AT HOME EVERY BOARD AND
COMMISSION IN CITY AND COUNTY
GOVERNMENT ALLOWS THREE
MINUTES.
I ASK MISS RANSBURG MENTIONED
COUNCIL LAST WEEK VOTED TO
AMEND THE DRAFT SUSTAINABILITY
COMMISSION BYLAWS TO RESTORE
THREE MINUTES IT WAS NO COUNCIL
SUPPORT VOICED FOR TWO MINUTES
COACH SOMEONE SMARTER THAN ME
WHO SPOKE A WHILE BACK AT CITY
COUNCIL.
THAT PERSON SAID QUOTE THE
RULES GIVE US A BRIEF
OPPORTUNITY TO ADDRESS YOU OUR
ELECTED REPRESENTATIVES
REGARDING MATTERS BEFORE
COUNCIL.
THIS KIND OF SPEECH IS THE
LITERAL CORE OF WHAT THE FIRST
AMENDMENT IS INTENDED TO
PROTECT AND ITS LIMITED ROLE
HERE ONLY IN THE NARROWEST WAY
AND ONLY FROM THE MOST
COMPELLING REASONS AND QUOTE
THAT PERSON WAS ACTUALLY ONE
OF YOU SITTING AT THE TABLE
TONIGHT SPEAKING IN A TWO AND A
HALF MINUTE COMMENT BACK IN TWO
AND TWENTY TWENTY ONE BEFORE
COUNCIL THAT PERSON ADDED
CALLED FOR A COUNCIL QUOTE
COMPRISED EXCLUSIVELY OF PEOPLE
WHO WANT TO LISTEN TO US WHO
TWEET THE PUBLIC COMMENTARY
PERIODS DURING THESE MEETINGS
AS SACRED AND QUOTE BEAUTIFULLY
SAID SO I KNOW THERE'S STRONG
SUPPORT FOR THE PUBLIC VOICE
HERE AT THE TABLE TONIGHT NOT
JUST THAT PERSON BUT I KNOW
FROM EXPERIENCE THAT ALL OF YOU
LISTEN TO WHAT WE SAY.
THANK YOU.
THANK YOU, MR. SCAVO.
TWENTY SEVENTEEN FOR ST. AND I
WAS PLANNING ON TALKING ABOUT
TECHNICAL DETAIL TONIGHT BUT
WHAT I'VE JUST HEARD FROM
COUNCIL MEMBER DISH IS
EXTREMELY UPSETTING.
I THOUGHT PLANNING COMMISSION
WAS SUPPOSED TO BE THE AUTHOR
OF THIS VISIONARY DOCUMENT.
CLEARLY COUNCIL WANTS TO WRITE
THE DETAILS THEMSELVES SO I'M
GOING TO ADDRESS MY COMMENTS
TOWARDS COUNCIL MEMBER DISH AS
REPRESENTATIVE OF COUNCIL I'M
REALLY TIRED OF HEARING ABOUT
VULNERABLE HOUSING AND NEW
DEFINITIONS OF EQUITY FROM
FOLKS WHO LIVE IN MULTIMILLION
HOMES.
ANN ARBOR IS A LIBERAL OASIS IN
A PURPLE STATE AND AS FEDERAL
CHANGES DRIVE VULNERABLE PEOPLE
TO MOVE TO LIBERAL CITIES THAT
ARE SUPPORTIVE OF HUMAN FIRST
VALUES, I THINK IT'S REALLY
IMPORTANT THAT WE OPEN UP OUR
CITY TO ALLOW NEW PEOPLE TO BE
ABLE TO MOVE HERE IF YOU OWN
PROPERTY HERE THAT INCLUDES
MYSELF.
YOU'RE PRIVILEGED TEACHERS,
NURSES, SOCIAL WORKERS CANNOT
AFFORD TO LIVE HERE BECAUSE WE
ARTIFICIALLY RESTRICT THE
NUMBER OF HOMES IN THE CITY.
THESE PEOPLE TEACH OUR CHILDREN
AND CARE FOR US AS WE AGE TO
DENY THEM THE ABILITY TO LIVE
HERE IN THE NEIGHBORHOOD OF IN
THE NAME OF NEIGHBORHOOD
CONTEXT WHICH IS JUST A
REWRITING OF THE WELL KNOWN DOG
WHISTLE OF NEIGHBORHOOD
CHARACTER.
IT DENIES OUR GOALS
OF SUSTAINABILITY, EQUITY AND
AFFORDABILITY.
IF YOU THINK PRESERVING THE
MAJORITY OF LAND IN THIS CITY
IN ANN ARBOR IS MORE IMPORTANT
THAN SAY THAT DIRECTLY UP FRONT
AND SAYING THAT THE CITY'S GOAL
FOR THE NEXT DECADES IS
INFLATING PROPERTY VALUES FOR
THE PRIVILEGED AMONG US WHO
ALREADY OWN PROPERTY THE CITY
DOES NOT HAVE AFFORDABLE HOLDER
HOUSES.
THE HOUSING APPENDIX SHOWS THAT
BUYING THE MEDIAN HOUSE TODAY
VERSUS JUST TWENTY NINETEEN SIX
YEARS AGO WOULD COST FIFTEEN
HUNDRED DOLLARS MORE PER MONTH
AND AN ADDITIONAL TWENTY SIX
THOUSAND IN A DOWN PAYMENT
THAT'S IN JUST SIX YEARS.
THE APPENDIX ALSO SHOWS THAT
THE RATE OF HOUSING
CONSTRUCTION HAS STEADILY AND
SHARPLY DECLINED SINCE THE
1960S ARE ONE LAND IS 60 PLUS
PERCENT OF THE AVAILABLE LAND
IN THIS CITY AND NOT CHANGING
IT WILL CONTINUE TO SEGREGATE
OUR CITY AND THE SURROUNDING
COUNTY.
THE COUNCIL'S RESOLUTION OUR
BEST CASE RESULT IS SLIGHT
HOUSING INCREASES ON THE
OUTSKIRTS OF THE CITY WITH
MIDDLE CLASS FOLKS CONTINUING
TO BE FORCED INTO THE TOWNSHIPS
INTO CAR DEPENDENT COMMUTES TO
PLANNING STAFF.
THANK YOU FOR THE HOUSING
APPENDIX.
THIS IS REAL RESEARCH AND I
ENCOURAGE MEMBERS OF THE PUBLIC
TO READ IT.
I WISH CITY COUNCIL RECOGNIZED
THE DATA AND THE ECONOMIC
RESEARCH SHOWING THE NEED FOR
MASSIVELY INCREASED HOUSING
SUPPLY.
I'M EXTREMELY DISAPPOINTED IN
CITY COUNCIL AND SAYING THAT
THESE LOANS WON'T BE ONE SIZE
FITS ALL AND THEY'LL BE
TAILORED FOR NEIGHBORHOOD
CONTEXT THAT CANNOT BE
EQUITABLE.
THANK YOU.
GREETINGS LEWIS VSQUEZ NINE
ZERO NINE BARTON DRIVE.
DO NOT WORRY I'M NOT HERE TO
SING A SONG TONIGHT OR MIS
PARAPHRASE ANY SHAKESPEARE BUT
I AM HERE TO DISH OUT SOME
GOSSIP THAT I'VE SEEN ON SOCIAL
MEDIA AND SOME OF THE ATROCIOUS
COMMENTS THAT I'M SEEING I
WANTED TO READ INTO THE PUBLIC
RECORD JUST SO THAT YOU KNOW
WHAT SOME OF THE DENSITY UPON
ARE SAYING ABOUT YOU ALL KIDDY
CON SAYS IN RESPONSE TO SAM
HOLMAN WHY IS UNINFORMED AND
ARROGANT A BAD COMBINATION BUT
I DON'T THINK HE'S IN THE
DRIVER'S SEAT.
THAT'S LI WHICH ONLY FILLS IN
WHEN LI HAS TO RECUSE HIMSELF.
IT'S OBVIOUS THAT HE DOESN'T
KNOW ANYTHING LEONARD IS
CONSTANTLY EDUCATING HIM.
CHRISTINE CROCKET RESPONDS
KITTY KITTY I'VE HEARD WHITES
DISMISS THE RECOMMENDATIONS
OF THE PLANNING DEPARTMENT ON
SEVERAL OCCASIONS.
VERY DISMAYING.
SAM COLEMAN KITTY THE CHAIR IN
THE DRIVER'S SEAT ARE NOT THE
SAME THING IN THIS INSTANCE
WHITE IS USUALLY ABLE TO BEND
THE COMMISSION THROUGH FORCE
OF PERSONALITY ALLIES AND
RHETORIC IN A WAY THAT LEE IS
NOT NOTICE THAT ONE HE'S NOT
GETTING HIS WAY.
HE'LL OFTEN START TALKING ABOUT
EXCLUSIONARY ZONING NOT SUBTLY
IMPLYING THAT IT'S DE JURE
RACIALLY EXCLUSIONARY ZONING.
HE'LL ALSO JUST LIE.
I HEARD HIM ONCE CLAIM THAT
NINETEEN SEVENTY ZONING
REQUIRED ALL HOUSES BE ON ONE
ACRE KITTY SAYS SAM.
OH BELIEVE ME I KNOW BUT I
DON'T THINK HE'S RESPECTED BY
THE COMMISSION.
HE JUST LIKES TO HEAR HIMSELF
TALK.
THEN THERE'S MR. STALBERG, THE
LANDLORD WHO HAS MORE THAN A
DOZEN PROPERTIES IN ANN ARBOR
AND COMMISSIONER ADAMS ADAMS
SAID LAST NIGHT THAT WE KNOW
SAM KOG IS WRONG.
HE THEN SAID THAT THEY WERE
FOUR HUNDRED PERCENT WRONG.
ADAMS IS TRAINED AS AN ATTORNEY
AND ARGUES LIKE A TV SHOW
ATTORNEY ADAMANT THAT HIS
VERSION OF THE TRUTH IS THE
ONLY TRUTH.
YET SO MANY OF HIS ARGUMENTS
ARE NOT FACTUAL.
AND THEN CHRISTINE CROCKET SAYS
SOMETHING ABOUT THEIR INSIPID
DISCUSSIONS ARE OFTEN MIND
BOGGLING.
WOW IS THAT THE REAL FEELINGS
OF SOME OF OUR COMMUNITY
MEMBERS TOWARDS THIS BODY?
I FIND THAT DISGUSTING AND I
THOUGHT YOU SHOULD ALL KNOW
ABOUT THAT.
THANK YOU FOR YOUR TIME.
>> THANK YOU.
MR. VASQUEZ IS THERE ANYONE
ELSE IN THE CHAMBER WHO WOULD
LIKE TO ADDRESS THE COMMISSION
DURING THIS TIME SEEING NONE?
>> DO WE HAVE ANY REMOTE
PARTICIPANTS
?
YES,
THERE ARE THREE CALLERS
CALLER ENDING IN FIVE THREE
FOUR.
YOU HAVE THREE MINUTES TO SPEAK
.
>> GOOD EVENING STOLLBERG.
CALL IT FROM ONE TO NEW YORK
NEWSPAPER THREE IN LOWER COUNT
IN ANN ARBOR.
LOTS OF TALK ABOUT EQUITY.
I'LL TALK ABOUT THAT EARLIER
AND WAS SPOT ON I'D LIKE TO ADD
TO THAT WE'VE HEARD COMMENTS
ABOUT EQUITY IN REGARDS TO THE
COPPER PLAN ACKNOWLEDGING
HISTORICAL AND SYSTEMIC RACISM.
THE LAND USE AND LENDING
POLICIES THAT THAT
DISCRIMINATION DENIED CERTAIN
GROUPS OF PEOPLE THE
OPPORTUNITY FOR
INTERGENERATIONAL EQUITY
BUILDING.
BUT THE PLAN DOESN'T OFFER
ANYTHING TO RECTIFY THAT LOST
OPPORTUNITY.
>> IT WAS INTERGENERATIONAL
EQUITY BUILDING.
I'D LIKE TO SEE DISCUSSION
OF THAT AND I'D LIKE TO SEE
INCLUSION IN THE PLAN
OF SOMETHING RECTIFYING WHAT
WAS DONE.
OTHER THINGS IN TERMS OF EQUITY
WERE SPOT ON IN TERMS
OF DIFFERENT AREAS HAVE
DIFFERENT QUALITIES
OF PROTECTION, DEED
RESTRICTIONS, HOMEOWNERS
ASSOCIATION, CONDO
ASSOCIATIONS, HISTORIC
DISTRICTS.
IF WE PASS A BLANKET RULE OVER
CERTAIN CATEGORIES BASED ON THE
CURRENT ZONING CATEGORY WHICH
SEEMS LIKE THE COMPREHENSIVE
PLAN THERE WERE WE ARE NOT
EQUALLY AFFECTING DIFFERENT
PROPERTY THAT CANNOT BE
EQUITABLE.
AS WE'VE SAID BEFORE, I'D ALSO
LIKE TO THINK ABOUT THE
DIFFERENCE IN HEIGHT.
LET'S SAY YOU HAVE A
NEIGHBORHOOD THAT'S ALL TWO TO
THREE STOREY HOUSING RIGHT NOW
COMPARED TO A NEIGHBORHOOD
THAT'S RICH IF YOU GROW UP TO
JUST THREE STORIES THAT HAVE A
DIFFERENT IMPACT ON THOSE TWO
DIFFERENT NEIGHBORHOODS
CURRENTLY IN OUR ZONE, ONE
OF THE THINGS WE DO IS WE DO
AVERAGING SETBACKS TO KIND
OF MAKE UP FOR DIFFERENCES AND
SETBACKS.
WE COULD DO SOMETHING LIKE THAT
JUST AS AN EXAMPLE, OUR
COMPREHENSIVE PLAN OF FUTURE
ZONING TO MAKE RECOGNITION
OF THE EXISTING BUILDINGS AND
HOW THEY'RE SET AND HOW THEIR
HEIGHTS ARE.
I'M REALLY GLAD TO HEAR FROM
COMMISSIONER AND COUNCIL MEMBER
THAT COUNCIL IS WEIGHING IN ON
SOME OF THESE ISSUES AND HAS
LISTENING TO US ONE OF THE
ISSUES THAT ARE OF GREAT
CONCERN TO ME IS THE TRANSITION
DISTRICT AND THE USE OF SHORT
TERM RENTALS BEING COMMITTED IN
TRANSITION DISTRICTS.
I'VE LOOKED AT THAT CLOSELY.
THERE'S AREAS ALL OVER TOWN
THAT WOULD BE JUST TERRIBLY
HARD BY SHORT TERM RENTALS.
THESE ARE NOT ALL OCCUPIED
SHORT TERM RENTAL PROPERTY THAT
PEOPLE THINK OF THEM WELL
THEY'RE NOT ALLOWED NOW WE
CREATED THE LAWS THAT ARE THERE
NOW.
WE VERY SPECIFICALLY DID NOT
WANT SHORT TERM RENTAL TO BE IN
CERTAIN AREAS.
WE DID NOT WANT TO TAKE HOUSING
STOCK AWAY FROM LONG TERM
RENTALS OR HOME OWNERSHIP.
BUT THE TRANSITWAY TRANSITION
DISTRICT HAS BEGUN.
I THINK YOU'RE SAYING YOU
FORESEE YOU'RE IN DUE OUT A
QUARTER.
YOU'RE WE'VE TAKEN AREAS THAT
ARE HIGHLY VULNERABLE TO
MASSIVE AMOUNTS OF SHORT TERM
RENTALS.
>> THANK YOU, MR. STOGEL.
THANK I HOPE YOU DO THAT.
THANK YOU
.
ALEX, THOUGH YOU HAVE THREE
MINUTES TO SPEAK.
HI, THIS IS ALEX THOUGH.
TWENTY FIVE VERY CHEAP .
IT'S ABOUT BOULEVARD WHICH IS
THE START OF THE QUESTION
OF PUBLIC COMMENT.
I UNDERSTAND WHY SOME CHANGES
NEED TO BE MADE TO THE PUBLIC
COMMENT.
HOWEVER IT IS AN ACCESSIBILITY
THING TO HAVE PEOPLE CALLING IN
ON ZOOM AND AND MAKING THESE
COMMENTS PEOPLE WHO FOR MANY
DIFFERENT REASONS CANNOT
PHYSICALLY BE IN THE CITY
COUNCIL CHAMBERS AT THIS TIME.
AND SO I WOULD ASK YOU TO
PLEASE IF YOU'RE GOING TO LIMIT
THE PUBLIC COMMENT TO GO BACK
AND FORTH BETWEEN PEOPLE IN
PERSON VERSUS PEOPLE ON THE
PHONE OR DO HALF AN HOUR
OF IN-PERSON THEN HALF AN HOUR
ON THE PHONE OR SOMETHING LIKE
THAT TO GIVE PEOPLE WHO ARE
REMOTE THAT THE SAME
OPPORTUNITY TO SPEAK AS PEOPLE
WHO ARE PHYSICALLY PRESENT.
I ALSO JUST WANT TO ADDRESS
QUESTIONS ABOUT GOLF COURSES.
GOLF COURSES ARE QUITE
LITERALLY THIS IS JUST GOLF.
WE LITERALLY BAN PEOPLE FROM
DOING OTHER THINGS AND THEN I
WANT TO TALK ABOUT VALUES AND
AND AND WHERE WHERE WE'RE GOING
WITH SINGLE FAMILY AS OWNING
AND STUFF LIKE THAT AND POINT
OUT THAT IN LAST YEAR'S 2024
PRESIDENTIAL ELECTION, KAMALA
HARRIS SAYS THAT SHE WANTED TO
CHANGE OR GET RID
OF EXCLUSIONARY ZONING AND
DONALD TRUMP SAID THAT THE
RADICAL LEFT WANTS TO ELIMINATE
SINGLE FAMILY ZONING SO IF IT
IF IT COMES DOWN TO WHICH SIDE
OF ARE WE ON I WOULD THAT I'M
WITH HARRIS AND I HOPE THAT THE
THAT THE CITY COUNCIL AND THE
PLANNING COMMISSION ARE TO
SPEAKING OF OUR CITY COUNCIL,
IT'S MY UNDERSTANDING
OF COUNCIL MEMBER DISHES
OMINOUS DESCRIPTION OF THIS
SECOND INAPPROPRIATE OVERREACH
BY COUNCIL IS CORRECT.
THIS IS EVEN MORE REASON WHY
PITTSFIELD VILLAGE SHOULD BE
TRANSITIONED DISTRICT NOT LOWER
RISE RESIDENTIAL DISTRICT THAT
WOULD BE EVEN MORE OF A DOWN
ZONING OF PITTSVILLE VILLAGE
THAN WHAT IS ALREADY BANNED IN
THE CURRENT STRUCTURE.
I WANT TO POINT OUT THAT WE
HAVE AGING INFRASTRUCTURE THAT
WE ARE GOING TO NEED TO REPLACE
WHETHER THE CITY GROWS IN
POPULATION OR NOT.
>> THE BEST WAY TO ACTUALLY
HAVE THE MONEY TO THANK YOU MR.
LE
CALLER 098 YOU HAVE THREE
MINUTES TO SPEAK
.
>> HELLO MY NAME IS RICHARD.
I LIVE IN 1910 CRESTFALLEN AND
FIRSTLY I WOULD LIKE TO FROM
THE PUBLIC INPUT FAR THE
EVENING AND I HOPE THAT THE
GENERAL TONE OF THAT WILL
RESULT IN A RETHINKING OF THE
PLAN.
I'VE BEEN FOLLOWING A
COMPREHENSIVE COMMISSION
PROCEEDINGS FOR A WHILE NOW.
IT SEEMS TO ME THAT THE CITY
COUNCIL AND THE MAYOR REALLY
WANT TO RUSH THIS THROUGH ONE
OF THE CONCERNS THAT PEOPLE
HAVE BROUGHT WITH ALL THE
INFRASTRUCTURE CAPACITY FOR THE
PROJECT INCREASED NUMBER
OF DWELLINGS ARE CONCERNED
WATERWAY SYSTEMS ARE NOT
ADEQUATE.
WE ALL KNOW THAT THE TAX BURDEN
WILL FALL ON THE BACKS
OF HOMEOWNERS THE VERY PEOPLE
WHO WOULD BE WHO WOULD BE MOST
ADVERSELY AFFECTED BY THE
IMPLEMENTATION OF THE PLAN AS
THE CITY SEEMS FORGET THE
DRAMATIC INCREASE IN STUDENT.
>> HOWEVER, IF YOU'VE BEEN
FOLLOWING UNIVERSITIES USING
MANY FEDERAL GRANT AND FOREIGN
STUDENTS WHO PAY HIGH TUITION
RATES ARE LESS LIKELY TO WANT
TO COME HERE CONSIDERING THE
WAY THEY'VE BEEN TREATED IN
THIS COUNTRY AT THIS UNIVERSITY
THE NUMBERS DON'T ADD UP MY
HUMBLE FIMIAN.
THIS PLAN IS A GIFT FOR
DEVELOPER AND AN ASSAULT ON
HOMEOWNERS.
I HOPE YOU WILL TAKE IT.
THANK YOU VERY MUCH.
THANK YOU.
DO WE HAVE ANY OTHER
PARTICIPANTS ONLINE LINE
WISHING TO ADDRESS THE
COMMISSION?
>> I DO NOT SEE ANY OTHER HANDS
RAISED.
GREAT.
I WILL CLOSE PUBLIC COMMENT AND
MOVE US TO ITEM NUMBER SEVEN
COMMUNICATIONS FROM
COMMISSIONERS' ARE THERE ANY
WILL START WITH COUNCIL AND
BRITISH.
THANK YOU.
I WANTED TO START WITH A COUPLE
OF THINGS.
IT IS ALWAYS IMPORTANT TO
REVIEW WHAT IS CURRENTLY
ALLOWED BECAUSE MANY PEOPLE ARE
FRAMING AS RISKS OF THE
COMPREHENSIVE PLAN THINGS THAT
ARE ALREADY ALLOWABLE TODAY.
SO A THREE STORY HOUSE CAN BE
BUILT NEXT TO A ONE STORY RANCH
TODAY.
>> COMPREHENSIVE PLAN DOESN'T
CHANGE THAT BUT COMPREHEND A
PLAN MAKES IT POSSIBLE THAT
THAT THREE STOREY STRUCTURE
COULD HOUSE THREE HOUSEHOLDS
INSTEAD OF JUST ONE.
IT IS CURRENTLY LEGAL FOR A
PRIVATE PROPERTY OWNER TO
REMOVE ANY TREES THEY WANT AND
NOT REPLACE THEM.
SO THE COMPREHENSIVE LAND USE
PLAN DOES NOT INCREASE THAT
RISK.
I WOULD LIKE US TO AS A THE
STAFF OR COMMISSION OR WHATEVER
WE DO TONIGHT I NOTICED THAT
THERE I JUST NEED THE QUESTION
ANSWERED WHETHER THERE IS AN
INTENTION FOR HEAVY INDUSTRY
USES IN THE TRANSITION ZONE.
THAT'S NOT WHAT I UNDERSTOOD
THE TRANSITION CATEGORY BUT I
NOTICED THAT LIGHT INDUSTRIAL
IS THE PHRASE LIGHT INDUSTRIAL
IS USED IN HUBB WHEREAS
INDUSTRIAL IS USED IN
TRANSITION.
>> BUT I WOULDN'T INFER FROM
THAT THAT THAT COULD ALLOW
HEAVY INDUSTRIAL OK, THIS CITY
IS NOT SEEKING TO DEVELOP GOLF
COURSES.
THE COMPREHENSIVE LAND USE PLAN
DOES NOT PROPOSE THAT WE DON'T
NEED TO LAMENT THE LOSS OF OUR
GOLF COURSES BECAUSE THEY
AREN'T GOING ANYWHERE.
MISS HAVING YOU ASKED TO HAVE
THE DEFINITION OF A UNIT A UNIT
IS A HOME SO THAT COULD BE AN
APARTMENT OF ANY SIZE.
WELL IF A UNIT IS A HOME SO IT
COULD BE AN APARTMENT SO IT
COULD BE A ONE BEDROOM OR TWO
BEDROOM OR THREE BEDROOM
APARTMENT IN A MULTIPLEX IT
COULD BE A SINGLE FAMILY HOME.
IT COULD BE TO SINGLE FAMILY
HOMES ATTACHED TO EACH OTHER.
SO COULD BE THERE'S THAT'S TWO
UNITS IN A DUPLEX FORMAT.
>> OK, SO AND I JUST WANT TO
SAY TWO MORE THINGS.
ONE IS THAT I DO NOT WANT TO BE
UNDERSTOOD TO SAY THAT THAT
BECAUSE THERE WILL BE MULTIPLE
ZONING DISTRICTS TO REALIZE
THESE LAND USE CATEGORIES.
I DO NOT WANT TO BE UNDERSTOOD
TO SAY THAT SOME NEIGHBORHOODS
WILL NOT
BE ZONED TO ALLOW
DUPLEX TRY PLEXUS ALL CURRENTLY
RESIDENTIAL NEIGHBORHOODS WILL
BE ZONED TO ALLOW DUPLEXES AND
TRY PLEXUS WHAT THAT INVOLVES
IN TERMS OF SETBACKS AND OTHER
OTHER WHAT DO WE CALL THOSE
FOUR DIMENSIONAL STANDARDS?
THANK YOU.
YOU HAVE A DEGREE IN THAT AND
OTHER DIMENSIONAL STANDARDS
DIMENSIONAL STANDARD.
LET'S GET BACK TO THE SUBJECT
WHAT THAT INVOLVES IN TERMS
OF DIMENSIONAL STANDARDS WILL
BE DIFFERENT BECAUSE OF THE
DIFFERENT ERAS IN WHICH THIS
CITY WAS BUILT AND THE
DIFFERENT ZONING REGIMES UNDER
WHICH DIFFERENT PARTS OF THE
CITY WERE BUILT AND SO IT WOULD
BE VERY DIFFICULT TO CRAFT A
SINGLE MODEL WHEN WE HAVE SOME
HOUSES THAT SIT ON TEN THOUSAND
ACRES AND SOME HOUSES THAT SIT
ON FIVE THOUSAND SQUARE.
>> I THINK WE SHOULD SAY SQUARE
FEET.
YES, I'M SO SORRY.
>> THANK YOU FOR THE HELP THERE
YOU SEE THIS IS WHY WE DO START
THE MEETING AT FIVE THIRTY
BECAUSE I DON'T GET BETTER AS
IT GETS LATER AND FINALLY THERE
WAS A STATEMENT THAT THE
INFRASTRUCTURE COSTS WOULD FALL
ON THE BACKS OF RESIDENTS TO
PAY FOR EXPANDED HOUSING
OPPORTUNITY.
IT IS NOT LEGAL UNDER MICHIGAN
STATE LAW TO CHARGE CURRENT
RATE PAYERS FOR EXPANSIONS
OF SYSTEMS THAT ARE DESIGNED
FOR NEW RATE PAYERS.
IT IS NOT LEGAL.
>> THERE IS A PORTION OF ALL
OF OUR WATER BILLS THAT GOES
FOR CAPITAL IMPROVEMENTS BUT
THAT DOES NOT MEAN THAT WE PAY
FOR THAT THAT WE WOULD PAY
EXCLUSIVELY OR FULLY FOR AN
EXPANSION OF THE SYSTEM AND SO
A BUILD OUT OF A SYSTEM WILL BE
FUNDED IN PART BY DEVELOPERS
WHO ARE DEVELOPING THE HOUSING
AND IT WILL BE FUNDED IN PART
BY PEOPLE WHO HOOK UP TO THAT
SYSTEM AND THE ENGINEERS ARE
THINKING RAPIDLY OF WAYS THAT
WE CAN ACCOMMODATE THE GROWTH
THAT WE SEE THE PLAN ITSELF
ANTICIPATES THIS ON SOMEWHERE
AROUND PAGE ONE HUNDRED TWENTY
AND WE ARE NOT AT CAPACITY AT
EITHER A STORM WATER OR THE
WATER TREATMENT PLANT.
WE HAVE ABOUT TEN TO FIFTEEN
YEARS TO PREPARE FOR THE
HOUSING OPPORTUNITY THAT WE
SEEK TO CREATE AND THAT WILL
HAPPEN.
>> THAT'S ALL I WANTED TO TALK
ABOUT.
THANK YOU.
COUNCIL MEMBER DISH WITH YOUR
PERMISSION, COMMISSIONER ABRAMS
,I JUST WANT TO DO A QUICK
THING ON THE UNIT DEFINITION
JUST TO ENHANCE OK, WELL YOU
ASKED TO SPEAK NEXT SO ANOTHER
WAY TO THINK OF A UNIT IS IT'S
ONE OR MORE ROOMS THAT HAS
KITCHEN AND A BATHROOM AND SO
WHEN WE TALK ABOUT UNITS THAT'S
WHAT WE ARE DESCRIBING AND
THAT'S TAKEN FROM UDC THE
UNIFIED DEVELOPMENT CODE .
>> IT'S ON PAGE TWO FIFTY NINE
.
OK, ALL RIGHT.
I BACK TO YOU, COMMISSIONER
ABRAMS.
>> THANK YOU.
I WAS ALSO GOING TO PROVIDE THE
UDC DEFINITION AND I ALSO
NOTICE THAT IT SAYS IT'S IT'S
INTENDED FOR OCCUPANCY BY A
SINGLE FAMILY WHICH FEELS LIKE
LANGUAGE WE MIGHT WANT TO
CHANGE ANYWAY.
LIKE IF YOU HAVE A GROUP
OF ROOMMATES YOU MAY IDENTIFY
AS A SINGLE FAMILY ANYWAY I
ALSO WANTED TO ADDRESS YOUR
COMMENT I THINK THAT YOU MADE
ABOUT THE MEDIAN INCOME IN YOUR
NEIGHBORHOOD AND THE AVERAGE
SALE PRICE.
I THINK IF I'M DOING MY MATH
CORRECTLY I THINK IF YOU MAKE
EIGHTY THOUSAND DOLLARS A YEAR
YOU ACTUALLY COULD NOT AFFORD
TO PURCHASE A FIVE HUNDRED
THOUSAND DOLLAR HOME.
SO I THINK THAT IT IS NOT
CURRENTLY AFFORDABLE.
WE WOULD NEED THE HOMES TO COME
DOWN BY I THINK A COUPLE
OF HUNDRED THOUSAND DOLLARS FOR
THE INCOMES TO GO UP SO
UNFORTUNATELY THE WAY THE
MEETINGS ARE FORMATTED YOU
CAN'T RESPOND BUT IF THERE'S A
BREAK OR SOMETHING YOU CAN WE
CAN INFORMALLY CHAT.
YEAH, A COUPLE OF THINGS I JUST
WANTED TO RESPOND TO FROM SOME
OTHER COMMENTERS.
I WANT TO I REALLY WANT TO PUSH
BACK ON THIS IDEA THAT LIVING
IN AN APARTMENT OR A TOWNHOUSE
OR A DUPLEX IS SOMEHOW A LOWER
QUALITY OF LIFE FOR CHILDREN OR
FAMILIES.
I THINK THAT THAT'S WRONG AND I
THINK THERE ARE MANY PEOPLE WHO
WOULD BE WOULD WELCOME ACTUALLY
THAT KIND OF CONFIGURATION
OF LIVING.
SO I JUST REALLY WANT TO MAKE
SURE THAT THAT ISN'T AN
ASSUMPTION THAT GOES ON NAMED I
ALSO WANT MAYBE SIMILAR TO WHAT
COMMISSIONER GISH WAS JUST
SAYING TO TO BE CAREFUL IN THE
LANGUAGE.
I THINK I HEAR A LOT OF PEOPLE
SAY THAT WE ARE ELIMINATING
SINGLE FAMILY NEIGHBORHOODS
THAT IS NOT WHAT THE PLAN IS
DOING.
THE PLAN IS ELIMINATING ZONING
CATEGORIES THAT EXCLUSIVELY
ONLY ALLOW SINGLE FAMILY HOMES
TO BE BUILT IN THEM.
OUR SINGLE FAMILY NEIGHBORHOODS
BOTH BY AND LARGE REMAIN FOR
MANY, MANY DECADES MAJORITY
SINGLE FAMILY NEIGHBORHOODS.
BUT LIKE MANY EXISTING
NEIGHBORHOODS WHICH ARE ZONED
OUR TWO WAY OR OUR FORESE
CURRENTLY SO WE CAN THINK ABOUT
THE OLD WEST SIDE, THE AREAS
AROUND VIRGINIA PARK AND OTHERS
WE HAVE LOTS OF NEIGHBORHOODS
IN ANN ARBOR WHERE SINGLE
FAMILY HOMES EXIST MIXED IN
WITH DUPLEXES AND SMALL
APARTMENT BUILDINGS AND I THINK
WE I DON'T I DON'T HEAR PEOPLE
SAYING THAT THOSE ARE HORRIBLE
PLACES TO LIVE.
I THINK ACTUALLY SOME OF THE
MOST DESIRABLE NEIGHBORHOODS IN
OUR IN OUR CITY.
SO THE IDEA IS THAT WE WOULD
EXPAND THAT OPPORTUNITY FOR
THAT KIND OF DENSITY TO THE
REST OF THE NEIGHBORHOOD WHICH
IS FAIR AND EQUITABLE TO ME
BOTH BECAUSE IT WILL ALLOW MORE
HOME MORE HOUSES TO BE BUILT,
MORE UNITS TO BE BUILT, MORE
PEOPLE TO LIVE HERE BUT ALSO
BECAUSE THAT KIND OF DENSITY
WILL BE SPREAD OUT ACROSS THE
CITY AND THEN THERE ARE THREE
SMALL THINGS THAT I JUST SAW IN
THE EMAIL COMMUNICATIONS FROM
ACTUALLY OH AND MISS RAMSBOTTOM
,YOU SAID THIS EVENING ABOUT
PUBLIC COMMENT.
I WAS SPEAKING FOR MYSELF
OBVIOUSLY I REALLY WELCOME AND
APPRECIATE PUBLIC COMMENT.
I NEVER THINK OF IT AS
SOMETHING WHICH IS TEDIOUS OR
UNCOMFORTABLE.
IT IS NOT SOMETHING THAT I AM
INTERESTED IN LIMITING AT ALL
FOR THOSE REASONS AND WE'LL
TALK ABOUT THIS LATER.
I THINK I'M IN SUPPORT
OF LEAVING IT BUT I JUST REALLY
WANTED TO SAY THAT I DON'T
THINK FOR ANYBODY UP HERE THAT
THE THAT THE IDEA OR THE
OPENING A CONVERSATION ABOUT
THE PUBLIC COMMENT AND ITS
LENGTH IS IN RESPONSE TO IT
FEELING UNCOMFORTABLE.
THEY'RE TEDIOUS.
I THINK IT'S ACTUALLY BEEN
REALLY GREAT TO HAVE THIS LEVEL
OF ENGAGEMENT AND THEN IN YOUR
EMAIL I CAN DO ASK THE QUESTION
SPECIFICALLY TO ME ABOUT UM
ABOUT I SAID SOMETHING ABOUT
STEPDOWN HEIGHT LIMITS IN
TRANSITION THAT WOULD LIMIT THE
POSSIBILITY OF A VERY TALL
BUILDING LIKE I THINK WE WERE
SAYING EIGHTY FIVE FEET GOING
NEXT TO A SINGLE FAMILY HOME
AND IN YOUR EMAIL YOU MENTIONED
FOUNDRY LOSS WHICH IS ON HERE
ON AND I YES.
THAT THE BUILDING IS NEAR OTHER
SINGLE FAMILY HOMES THAT IS
ZONED D ONE WHICH IS THE
DENSEST ZONING CATEGORY WE HAVE
IN THE CITY.
>> SO I THINK WE CAN LOOK AT
THE FUTURE LAND USE MAP NOW AND
THINK ABOUT THIS TRANSITION
CATEGORY WHICH IS SOMETHING
WHICH MEDIATES BETWEEN HUB TO
BE THE DENSITY LIKE D ONE WHERE
YOU WOULD HAVE THESE VERY TALL
APARTMENT BUILDINGS AND SINGLE
FAMILY NEIGHBORHOODS IN
TRANSITION WILL BE THE ZONE
WHERE WE THINK ABOUT THIS STEP
DOWN HEIGHT LIMIT BASED ON YOUR
PROXIMITY AND ADJACENCY TO
SINGLE FAMILY AND THEN SORRY TO
OTHER REALLY SMALL THINGS THERE
WAS AN EMAIL ABOUT SPRING
STREET DENHA MILLER AND AND I
JUST WANTED TO CLARIFY TO THAT
PERSON WHO WROTE IN THAT SPRING
IS CURRENTLY ZONED PRIMARILY
RESIDENTIAL ACCORDING TO NOT SO
SORRY IT IS DEMARCATED IN THE
FUTURE LAND USE MAP AS
PRIMARILY RESIDENTIAL WHEN
YOU'RE SEEING THIS KIND
OF STRIPE OF TRANSITION ALONG
MILLER IT'S JUST THIS AREA
OF MILLER WEST OF DOWNTOWN I
THINK UP TO BROOKS AND THIS IS
A IT'S IT'S AN OFFSET BASICALLY
OF MILLER SO IT ISN'T ABOUT
TURNING SPRING INTO A
TRANSITION AND I THINK THAT WAS
WHAT I HAD FOR NOW.
THANK YOU.
COMMISSIONER ABRAMS WILL GO NOW
TO COMMISSIONER HAMMERSCHMIDT
AND THEN TO COMMISSIONER.
>> THANK YOU.
I THINK THE PERSON THAT DID THE
PUBLIC COMMENT ABOUT THIS LEFT
BUT I DID WANT TO POINT OUT
THAT IF COUNTING CORRECTLY FIVE
OF US UP HERE ARE PARENTS WITH
CHILDREN WHO LIVE IN SINGLE
FAMILY NEIGHBORHOODS.
>> SO I THINK THERE'S STILL A
MISUNDERSTANDING BUT I BELIEVE
THAT WE ARE ACTUALLY TRYING TO
ACHIEVE HERE HOUSING RIGHT NOW
IS VERY EXPENSIVE.
I DON'T THINK ANYBODY CAN ARGUE
THAT THE IDEA OF ALLOWING FOR
MORE DENSITY, ALLOWING FOR
DUPLEXES, ET CETERA IN
NEIGHBORHOODS CURRENTLY ZONED
SINGLE FAMILY IS TO ALLOW MORE
PEOPLE TO BE ABLE TO EXPERIENCE
THOSE NEIGHBORHOODS.
PEOPLE DON'T ALWAYS HAVE A
CHOICE TO HAVE A PRIVATE
BACKYARD BUT AT LEAST TO THE
DUPLEX OR TRIPLEX COMPLEX THEY
WOULD HAVE A SHARED BACKYARD
THAT BECOMES AVAILABLE TO THEM.
>> THANK YOU, COUNCILMAN FOR I
WAS GOING TO MAKE THE SAME
POINT THAT YOU CAN BUILD RIGHT
NOW UP TO THIRTY FEET RIGHT NOW
AND ALL SINGLE FAMILY
NEIGHBORHOOD.
SO IF YOU HAVE A SINGLE STORY
HOME WITH SOLAR PANELS SOMEBODY
TOMORROW COULD BUILD A 30 MILE
PROBABLY WOULDN'T BE TOMORROW
BUT A 30 FOOT HOME NEXT TO YOU
SO I DON'T I MEAN I THINK LOOK
,IT'S ONLY DISTRICTS WILL BE
TAKING CURRENT CONDITIONS INTO
ACCOUNT BUT YOU KNOW, TODAY
BUILDING A SINGLE STORE, A
SINGLE FAMILY THREE STORY HOME
JUST DOES NOT SEEM I MEAN IS IT
BETTER THAN A TWO STOREY
DUPLEX?
>> I MEAN THAT'S WHAT WE'LL BE
DISCUSSING WITH ZONING.
I WANT TO READ A DESCRIPTION
OF EQUITY AND THIS IS EXACTLY
HOW I THINK OF EQUITY AND SORT
OF EQUITY FOR YEARS.
SO THE TERM EQUITY REFERS TO
FAIRNESS
JUSTICE AND IT'S
DISTINGUISHED FROM EQUALITY IS
EQUALITY MEANS PROVIDING THE
SAME TO ALL EQUITY MEANS
RECOGNIZING THAT WE DO NOT ALL
START FROM THE SAME PLACE AND
MUST ACKNOWLEDGE AND MAKE
ADJUSTMENTS TO IMBALANCES SO
SPECIFICALLY WITH THE DIRECTION
THAT WE'RE TAKING WITH THIS
PLAN IT DOESN'T MEAN EVERYBODY
NEEDS THE SAME SIZE, THE SAME
TYPE OF HOUSING.
EVERYONE NEEDS TO HAVE ACCESS
TO HOUSING SO WE'RE TRYING TO
LEVEL THE PLAYING FIELD WHEN IT
COMES TO HOUSING WITHIN AN HOUR
OR WHATEVER TYPE
OF NEIGHBORHOOD SOMEBODY
CHOOSES TO LIVE IN AND BY
PROVIDING A NUMBER OF OPTIONS
WITHIN THOSE NEIGHBORHOODS,
WHETHER IT'S CURRENT RENTERS
LOOKING TO BUY IN AND OTHER
PEOPLE CURRENTLY LIVING OUTSIDE
OF CITY LIMITS WHO STRIVE TO
LIVE WITHIN CITY LIMITS, THE
RENTERS ARE HOMEOWNERS NEED TO
BE ABLE TO PROVIDE FOR ALL
OF THESE PEOPLE AND I JUST
DON'T THINK WE INCLUDED ANYONE
CURRENTLY FORTUNATE ENOUGH TO
OWN A ANN ARBOR HAS ANY SORT
OF REAL EQUITY COMPLAINT FROM A
FAIRNESS AND JUSTICE
STANDPOINT.
>> THE NOTION OF ALL DEVELOPERS
JUST BEING GREEDY AND MONEY
GRABBERS AND IN THE POCKET
OF THE MAYOR IS FRANKLY A
REALLY BAD STEREOTYPE, JUST BAD
RHETORIC.
I AM A DEVELOPER DEVELOPMENT
RIGHT NOW IS NOT AN EASY
BUSINESS AND THAT'S WHY WE'RE
SEEING SO MANY HIGH RISES JUST
NOT A WHOLE LOT ELSE PENCILS
OUT DUE TO REALLY HIGH
CONSTRUCTION COSTS.
>> AND THEN LASTLY AND I THINK
I SAID THIS TWO WEEKS AGO THE
ONLINE BULLYING AND THE PUBLIC
COMMENT RUDENESS HAS TO STOP.
I DON'T UNDERSTAND HOW THAT IS
EVEN PRODUCTIVE DISCOURSE WHEN
THE COMMISSION REAL PEOPLE WE
ALL LIVE IN ANN ARBOR WERE
VOLUNTEERS AND THEY DON'T
DESERVE THIS.
WE CAN DISAGREE AND WE CAN HAVE
CONSTRUCTIVE CONVERSATIONS
WITHOUT NAME CALLING AND
DISPARAGING REMARKS AND I HAVE
NOTHING BUT RESPECT FOR ADAM
AND WATCH AND HEARING WHAT WAS
READ TONIGHT WAS REALLY AWFUL
AND I'M SO SAD TO HEAR THAT.
>> OH IT'S OK BUT THANK YOU
COMMISSIONER ADAMS.
THANKS.
SO THREE THREE QUICK THINGS
HOPEFULLY QUICK SO ECHO
COUNCILWOMAN DISHES POINT ABOUT
THE LIGHT INDUSTRIAL INDUSTRIAL
WE HAVE TO TACKLE THAT SECOND
POINT TO YOUR YOUR POINT ABOUT
THE GOLF COURSES SO PAGE IT'S
BURIED SO I'M JUST GOING TO
POINT IT OUT READ IT.
SO ONE TWENTY FOUR IN THE PLAN
REFERENCES THE PREVIOUS PLAN
AND STATES THAT WITH RESPECT TO
PARKS OPEN SPACES, REC
FACILITIES THAT INCLUDES PARKS,
OPEN SPACES THAT FEATURE
SIGNIFICANT NATURAL ELEMENTS
FOR OFFER RECREATIONAL
AMENITIES SUCH AS PLAYING
FIELDS, GOLF COURSES AND
INTERNAL NETWORKS.
THESE AREAS ARE PUBLICLY OWNED
AND EDGE RESIDENTS HAVE
EXPRESSED BROAD SUPPORT FOR
PRESERVING EXISTING OPEN SPACES
AND ENSURING THAT THE CITY CAN
MEET THE RECREATIONAL NEEDS
OF A GROWING POPULATION.
REFERENCES AND INCORPORATES BY
REFERENCE THE PURCHASE PLAN.
SO THAT'S THE SEPARATE PARKS
PLAN AND IS AND THAT'S THERE'S
TWO MENTIONS OF GOLF IN HERE
AND THAT'S ONE OF THEM AND THE
OTHER ONE'S PRETTY BENIGN.
I DON'T IF WE INTENDED TO CUT
AND GO AFTER GOLF COURSES WE'D
BE SAYING IT AND WE'RE ACTUALLY
SAYING THE OPPOSITE I THINK SO
THERE'S NO THREAT TO GOLF TO TO
YOUR QUESTION, MA'AM AND I'M
SORRY I FORGOT YOUR NAME SO NO
CASES IN THE LAW SCHOOL TALKED
ABOUT POPULATION PROJECTIONS
BACK IN MAY AND HIS COMMENT WAS
FORMATIVE FOR ME.
SO I'LL PARAPHRASE IT IN TRYING
TO RESPOND TO YOUR QUESTION SO
I STRUGGLE WITH SOME COGGS
POPULATION PROJECTION WHICH IS
A PROJECTION THAT'S BEEN
FLOATING AROUND IN SOME OF THE
COMMUNITY COMMENTS THAT WE'VE
RECEIVED AND ALSO I'M AWARE
OF IT GENERALLY.
RIGHT.
IT'S A REPUTABLE NUMBER.
THE PROBLEM WITH IT IS THAT
WHEN YOU'RE PROJECTING
POPULATION IN A MUNICIPALITY
THAT CONSTRAINS HOUSING SUPPLY
FOR AS LONG AS WE HAVE OR AT
ALL WHAT YOU'RE ACTUALLY
LOOKING AT IS ITS POPULATION AS
A FUNCTION OF HOUSING GROWTH.
SO THE MORE YOU ALLOW THE MORE
POPULATION IS TO GROW.
THAT'S DISTINCT FROM POPULATION
GROWTH IN AN AREA WHERE IT'S
NOT CONSTRAINED EITHER BY LAND
OR BY LAW.
THEY'RE
WITH YOU'RE SEEING ALL
RIGHT, IT'S UNCONSTRAINED SO
HOW MUCH DO PEOPLE WANT TO MOVE
HERE AND YOU CAN LOOK AT THE
NUMBER AND SAY WELL THAT'S HOW
MUCH PEOPLE WANT TO MOVE HERE.
>> THE PROBLEM WE HAVE IN
LOOKING AT SANDHOGS PROJECTION
IS THAT IT'S FLAT AND WE KNOW
IT'S NOT FLAT BECAUSE EVERY
TIME WE'VE LOOSENED UP THE
HOUSING SUPPLY WE SEE A GAUGE.
WE KNOW THE DEMAND FOR HOUSING
EXCEEDS THAT NUMBER.
SO WHATEVER LOOKING AT
HISTORICAL CONSTRAIN RATES AND
IN PROJECTING OUT INTO THE
FUTURES THAT WILL CONTINUE THAT
DOESN'T TELL US VERY MUCH.
IT DOESN'T TELL VERY MUCH ABOUT
HOUSING DEMAND AND IT DOESN'T
TELL US VERY MUCH ABOUT WHAT WE
SHOULD BE BUILDING TO.
WE HAVE TO TRY TO FIGURE OUT
WHAT THE NUMBER AND I THINK THE
PLAN DOES THIS ONE POINT WHERE
WE SAY THIS IS THE NUMBER WE
THINK THAT WE NEED TO ADD YEAR
OVER YEAR TO MEET THE DEMAND
HISTORICAL AND CURRENT IN ORDER
TO TRY TO CATCH UP.
BUT THAT IS JUST WE ARE TAKING
A SWING.
WE'RE TRYING TO FIGURE OUT
BASED ON THE DATA WE HAVE WHAT
IT NEEDS, WHAT IT NEEDS TO BE,
WHAT IT LOOKS LIKE.
BUT THE POPULATION RATE TO YOUR
QUESTION DOESN'T REALLY HELP US
ANSWER IT BECAUSE IT'S ITS
MATHEMATICAL MODEL IT BUT NO
CASE IS CALLED IT
PSEUDO-SCIENCE IT KIND OF IT
FOR ME BECAUSE IT'S JUST VERY
HARD TO TO DRAW ANYTHING FROM
IT OR CALCULATE IT ACCURATELY.
THAT'S MY ANSWER.
THANK YOU COMMISSIONER ADAMS.
WE'LL GO NOW TO COMMISSIONER
WEATHERBEE AND THEN TO
COMMISSIONER MILLS.
>> YEAH, I JUST WANTED TO KIND
OF DISCUSS AGAIN THE IDEA
OF MULTIFAMILY BUILDINGS AND
THE FAMILIES.
I MEAN IT'S IN THE NAME WHO
LIVES IN MULTIFAMILY BUILDINGS
.
I ACTUALLY LIVE IN A
NEIGHBORHOOD THAT WAS NOT
MENTIONED ANY OF MISS ARBORS
LISTING OF PEOPLE WE WOULDN'T
LIVE THERE KIND OF THING
BECAUSE I LIVE IN AN AIR FORCE,
THE NEIGHBORHOOD I'VE LIVED
THERE FOR 30 YEARS.
WE HAVE THIS MULTIFAMILY
BUILDING HAS BEEN ALLOWED SINCE
I'VE LONG BEFORE I WE MOVED IN
30 YEARS AGO.
I LIVE IN A SINGLE FAMILY HOME.
I GOT AN AWARD FROM THE
HISTORIC DISTRICT.
THESE THINGS CAN ALL EXIST
TOGETHER.
THE PEOPLE IN MY NEIGHBORHOOD
MANY OF THEM HAVE CHILDREN,
MANY OF THEM RAISE THEIR
CHILDREN NEXT TO APARTMENT
BUILDINGS.
THERE ARE APARTMENT BUILDINGS
ACROSS THE STREET.
THERE ARE CHILDREN ACROSS THE
STREET.
THE CHILDREN LIVE IN THE
APARTMENT BUILDINGS AND THEY
LIVE NEXT TO THE APARTMENT
BUILDINGS AND THOSE HOUSES ARE
NOT LESS THEY HAVEN'T THEY
HAVEN'T LOST THEIR VALUE.
THE KIDS ARE GREAT.
THEY GROW UP INTO GOOD PEOPLE.
YOU KNOW, THE PARENTS ARE GOOD
PEOPLE.
SO I REALLY DO HAVE TO PUSH
BACK AGAIN.
AS OTHER COMMISSIONERS HAVE
SAID, WE CANNOT THINK OF HOW
PEOPLE THE HOUSES PEOPLE LIVE
IN AS THE VALUE OF THE PEOPLE
WHO LIVE IN THEM AND THE PLACES
THEY LIVE IS NOT THE VALUE
OF THE HUMAN BEING.
AND I THINK WE REALLY NEED TO
GET AWAY FROM THINKING THAT
SINGLE FAMILY HOUSING IS HOW
EVERYONE WANTS TO LIVE AND HOW
EVERYONE CAN LIVE BECAUSE
THAT'S JUST NOT REALISTIC.
OVER HALF OF THE RESIDENTS
OF ANN ARBOR LIVE IN RENTAL
UNITS.
MANY OF THOSE ARE MULTIFAMILY
AND I HAVE TO SAY MY NEIGHBORS
WHO LIVE IN MULTIFAMILY
BUILDINGS ARE DEAR FRIENDS
OF MINE.
THEY'RE LOVELY PEOPLE LIKE THIS
IS NOT WE ARE NOT TRYING TO
RUIN ANN ARBOR.
WE'RE NOT TRYING TO MAKE THINGS
HARDER FOR PEOPLE AND SINGLE
FAMILY HOUSES.
WHEN WE BOUGHT OUR HOUSE, WE
BOUGHT OUR HOUSE.
WE DIDN'T BUY EVERYBODY ELSE'S
HOUSE AND PEOPLE WHO HAVE OTHER
NEEDS AND WHO OWNED THE OTHER
PIECES OF PROPERTY ARE ALLOWED
TO USE THOSE OTHER PIECES
OF PROPERTY.
IT DOESN'T AFFECT MY HOUSE.
IT DOESN'T AFFECT HOW I LIVE MY
LIFE.
>> THERE ARE A FOUR STORY BUILT
APARTMENT BUILDING WENT UP DOWN
THE STREET.
WE HAVE A LOT MORE DOGS IN THE
NEIGHBORHOOD NOW.
THEY'RE REALLY CUTE.
THAT'S THE SUM TOTAL.
THERE ISN'T MORE TRAFFIC, THERE
ISN'T MORE CRIME, THERE ISN'T
MORE.
I WOULD LOVE TO LIVE NEXT DOOR.
AS A MATTER OF FACT WE'VE ALL
DISCUSSED GETTING TOGETHER
BECAUSE THEY HAVE A POOL AND
THE REST OF US HAVE A POOL
OF LIKE RENTING AN APARTMENT IN
THAT BUILDING SO WE CAN USE THE
POOL LIKE I MEAN MULTIFAMILY
BUILDINGS ARE LOVELY.
THIS IS NOT A PROBLEM.
I'M NOT I WOULD NOT SIT UP HERE
AND SAY OH I WANT MULTIFAMILY
BUILDINGS IN YOUR NEIGHBORHOOD
BUT NOT IN MINE.
I LIVE IN THAT NEIGHBORHOOD AND
IT'S GREAT.
SO I JUST WANT TO REITERATE
THAT THE SORT OF TERMINOLOGY
LIKE THESE NEIGHBORHOODS TAKE
THE BRUNT OF DEVELOPMENT.
I THINK DEVELOPMENT IS NOT
SOMETHING THAT WE NEED TO LOOK
AT AS A TERRIBLE THING.
IT JUST IS IT IS WHAT WE'VE
DONE IN ANN ARBOR FOR WHAT WE
JUST DID.
OUR 200 ANNIVERSARY DEVELOPMENT
HAS HAPPENED IN ANN FOR 200
YEARS AND IT WILL CONTINUE AND
IF WE LOOK AT PEOPLE AS HUMANS
AND AS NEIGHBORS THEN THAT'S A
LOT DIFFERENT THAN SAYING OH
YEAH, THIS IS A TERRIBLE THING
COMING TO YOUR NEIGHBORHOOD.
I LIVE NEXT TO STUDENTS AND IT
TURNS OUT THAT STUDENTS CAN BE
REALLY GREAT AND STUDENTS CAN
BE PROBLEMATIC AND ADULTS CAN
BE NOT THAT STUDENTS AND ADULTS
BUT SINGLE FAMILY HOMEOWNERS
CAN BE REALLY PROBLEMATIC.
THE WORST PEOPLE IN OUR
NEIGHBORHOOD HAVE LIVED IN
SINGLE FAMILY HOUSES AND THEY
OWN THEM AND SO THEY'RE THERE
FOR A LONG TIME AND IT'S IT'S
IT'S KIND OF THAT CAN BE MORE
PROBLEMATIC THAN A STUDENT
WHO'S MAYBE YOU LEARNING TO BE
A GOOD ADULT BUT WE CAN HELP
THEM.
AND SO YOU KNOW, I JUST WANT TO
SAY THAT THE KIND OF RHETORIC
AGAINST PEOPLE WHO LIVE IN
SINGLE FAMILY HOUSING IS REALLY
DISTURBING TO ME.
AND YOU KNOW, YOU'RE ALL
WELCOME TO COME SIT ON MY FRONT
PORCH SOMEDAY AND SEE HOW HOW
NICE IT ACTUALLY CAN BE BECAUSE
IT'S PRETTY LIGHT.
SO I JUST WANTED TO TO
REITERATE THANK YOU,
COMMISSIONER WEATHERBEE.
COMMISSIONER MILLS', THANK YOU.
I WANT TO THANK EVERYONE WHO
PARTICIPATED TODAY IF THERE ARE
PEOPLE WHO PARTICIPATED IN THE
LAST COUPLE OF WEEKS WHILE I
WAS ABSENT, I WANT TO THANK YOU
TOO.
I LISTENED IN AT ONE AND A HALF
SPEED NOT GOING TO LIE.
>> I ALSO WANT TO THANK MY
FELLOW COMMISSIONERS GIVE UP
WHO WHO SPEND EVERY TUESDAY
HERE AS MENTIONED BY A NUMBER
OF PARTICIPANTS
TONIGHT WE ARE
VOLUNTEERS AND AND SO THANK YOU
FOR RECOGNIZING THAT IN US TWO
COMMENTS THAT WERE MADE TONIGHT
ONE WANT TO GO BACK TO THE
POPULATION.
THE OTHER THING THAT THE THE
COMPREHENSIVE PLAN DISCUSSES
THAT MATTERS A LOT TO ME OR
THAT I THINK ABOUT LOT IS THAT
OUR OUR POPULAR OUR FAMILY SIZE
HAS BEEN SHRINKING OVER TIME.
>> SO IF WE NEVER BUILT
ANYTHING ELSE OUR POPULATION
WOULD ACTUALLY GO DOWN A HOUSE
THAT WAS OVER AN APARTMENT THAT
ONCE UPON A TIME WE WOULD HAVE
HAD FIVE PEOPLE LIVING IN.
NOW ON AVERAGE OUR OUR HOUSING
OUR OUR FAMILY UNITS ARE TWO
AND A HALF PEOPLE.
RIGHT.
AND SO THAT'S AMONG THE REASONS
THAT THIS LACK OF HOUSING HAS
REALLY BEEN TRICKY AND HAS BEEN
ARTIFICIALLY LIKE DECREASING
THE SIZE OF AND EVEN THOUGH
YES, WE'VE BEEN BUILDING OUR
OUR FAMILIES ARE GETTING
SMALLER TOO.
>> SO I THINK THAT THAT' ONE
OF THE OTHER THINGS THAT WE
TALK ABOUT A LITTLE BIT IN HERE
BUT THAT I THINK ABOUT ABOUT
WHY BUILDING NEW UNITS IS
REALLY IMPORTANT.
>> THE OTHER THING THAT I WOULD
JUST SAY IS THAT WE ALL BRING
WITH US KIND OF OUR EXPERIENCE
TO THIS.
>> I ALSO HAVE TO NOW NOT AS
SMALL AS THEY ONCE WERE
CHILDREN ONE IS IN ELEMENTARY
SCHOOL, ONE IS IN MIDDLE
SCHOOL.
I OWN A SINGLE FAMILY HOMES
THAT ARE FAUSTINA NEIGHBORHOOD
SO I AM NEXT TO A HIGH RISE
ACROSS THE STREET FROM A
FORTUNE APARTMENT BUILDING WE
ARE CURRENTLY REMODELING SO I
AM ALSO CURRENTLY A RENTER AND
I WANT TO JUST SHARE MY
EXPERIENCE AS A PARENT.
TRYING TO FIND A THREE BEDROOM
RENTAL IN THIS TOWN IS REALLY,
REALLY HARD AND EXPENSIVE
REALLY, REALLY HARD AND I WAS
VERY AMBIVALENT ABOUT WHAT I
WAS TRYING TO LOOK FOR BUT I
WANTED TO NOT HAVE TO MOVE MY
KIDS TO A DIFFERENT SCHOOL AND
YOU CAN FIND THREE BEDROOM
RENTALS ON THE PERIPHERY BUT
THAT'S NOT WHAT WE'RE TALKING
LIKE I WANT TO BE ABLE TO STAY
IN THE NEIGHBORHOOD.
BLATT'S ODDLY I AM ON THE WEST
SIDE WHERE ONCE UPON A TIME WE
BUILT A WHOLE BUNCH OF DUPLEXES
BUT WE'RE ACTUALLY TWO THREE
BEDROOMS AND THAT'S GREAT BUT
THAT'S NOT SUPER COMMON
ACTUALLY.
>> AND SO I THINK THAT THAT'S
ONE OF THE THINGS I CAN NOW SAY
AGAIN I KNEW BEFORE THAT I WAS
FORTUNATE BECAUSE I COULD NOT
BUY ANOTHER HOUSE IN THIS CITY.
>> I LIKE BEING ON THE RENTAL
MARKET.
IT'S REALLY, REALLY TRICKY AND
SO I THINK AS I AM APPROACHING
THIS RECOGNIZING THAT A
DIVERSITY OF HOUSING TYPES ARE
SO IMPORTANT AND WHAT YOU MIGHT
THINK FOR RENTING FOR APARTMENT
BUILDINGS EVEN WITHIN APARTMENT
BUILDINGS MAKING SURE THAT WE
HAVE A DIVERSITY OF SIZES
OF UNITS IS REALLY, REALLY
IMPORTANT TO BE ABLE TO ALLOW
PEOPLE OF ALL DIFFERENT KINDS
OF FAMILIES SITUATIONS TO BE TO
FIND A PLACE HERE THAT THEY CAN
AFFORD.
>> SO THOSE ARE MY COMMENTS.
>> THANK YOU, COMMISSIONER
MILLS, COMMISSIONER JORDAN.
OK, SO THIS IS THE EVENING
WHERE WE'RE ALL CHEERING AND
THOUGHT WE'VE BEEN SITTING HERE
FOR A LONG TIME LISTENING TO
LOTS AND LOTS FEEDBACK AND I
LARGELY AGREE WITH EVERYTHING
THAT'S BEEN SAID.
I WANT TO SPEAK A LITTLE BIT
ABOUT PROCESS WE'VE BEEN
HEARING FROM THE START ABOUT
HOW FUNDAMENTALLY FLAWED THE
PLAYING PROCESS HAS BEEN FOR
THIS EFFORT.
I WANT TO POINT OUT THAT THE
PROCESS THAT ANN ARBOR HAS BEEN
ENGAGING FOR PUBLIC
PARTICIPATION IN THIS EFFORT
GOES WAY BEYOND WHAT THE
MICHIGAN PLANNING ENABLING ACT
REQUIRES.
UNDER THAT ACT ALMOST LITERALLY
ALL THE CITY WOULD HAVE TO DO
WOULD BE TO NOTIFY THE
NEIGHBORING JURISDICTIONS WE'RE
GOING TO DO A PLAN DRAFT TO
PLAN AND THEN ALLOW IF THIRTY
SIXTY THREE DAY PUBLIC COMMENT
PERIOD AND THAT'S IT FAIR AND
THEY CAN ADOPT THE PLAN ALL
OF THE WORKSHOPS, ALL OF THE
DOWNTOWN EFFORTS THEY'VE BEEN
ENGAGING ARE JUST WAY BEYOND
WHAT WAS REQUIRED.
SO THAT'S THE FIRST POINT.
THE SECOND POINT IS I CAN TELL
YOU AS A PLANNER IT'S
INCREDIBLY HARD TO GET MEMBERS
OF THE COMMUNITY TO GET
INTERESTED IN PLANNING.
I BREAKS MY HEART TO SAY THAT
THERE'S A PLANNER BECAUSE FOLKS
ARE BUSY, THEY'VE GOT LIVES,
THEY'RE LEADING, THEY'VE GOT
OTHER THINGS GOING ON.
THEY DON'T SEE HOW IT'S
RELEVANT TO THEM.
IT'S EVEN REALLY PRETTY
NOTORIOUSLY HARD TO GET FOLKS
TO SHOW UP WHEN SOMETHING HAS
BEEN PROPOSED RIGHT NEXT DOOR
UNTIL IT FINALLY CLICKS WITH
THEM.
OH, THIS MIGHT AFFECT ME.
SO OVER THE LAST COUPLE
OF MONTHS WE'VE HAD TWO
DIFFERENT PROJECTS COME IN AT A
PRETTY GOOD TO DRAMATICALLY
ALTER THE NEIGHBORHOOD.
EACH OF THOSE PROJECT
PROPONENTS SET OUT POSTCARDS TO
THIRTEEN SOME RESIDENTS IN THE
NEIGHBORHOOD INFORMING THEM
SOMETHING'S GOING TO HAPPEN AND
EACH OF THEM HAD LIKE TWENTY
PEOPLE RESPOND.
TWENTY PEOPLE REACHED OUT AND
ENGAGED.
SO THE IDEA THAT THE PROCESS
HERE WAS FUNDAMENTALLY BECAUSE
THE CITY DIDN'T SEND OUT
POSTCARDS TO EVERY RESIDENT IN
THE CITY IMMEDIATELY IT WOULD
HAVE BEEN A HUGE WASTE OF MY
TIME AND MONEY AND EFFORT.
SO WE HAVE BEEN ENGAGING LOTS
OF FOLKS NOW COULD WE HAVE DONE
IT BETTER?
SURE.
YOU COULD ALWAYS LOOK BACK IN
HINDSIGHT.
I MEAN TWENTY DO IT BETTER BUT
PLEASE DON'T BUY INTO THE IDEA
THAT THERE'S BEEN THIS
FUNDAMENTALLY FLAWED PROCESS IS
BROKEN AND WE'RE NOT LISTENING
TO YOU.
THAT'S MY NEXT POINT.
OH MY GOSH.
WE ARE LISTENING TO YOU AND I
TO VALUE ALL OF THE PUBLIC
FEEDBACK WE'VE BEEN GETTING.
BUT I WOULD ASK PLEASE WHEN
YOU'RE STANDING HERE OR HERE TO
MAKE YOUR COMMENTS, PLEASE
LISTEN TO THE OTHER COMMENTS
THAT ARE BEING MADE AND PLEASE
LISTEN ESPECIALLY TO FOLKS WHO
ARE MAKING COMMENTS THAT DON'T
AGREE WITH THE COMMENTS THAT
YOU'RE MAKING BECAUSE WE HAVE
TO LISTEN TO ALL OF THEM AND
TRY AND FIGURE OUT HOW TO
RECONCILE THEM SO IT CAN'T BE
THE CASE THAT IF WE'RE NOT
LISTENING TO YOU, IF WE DON'T
DO EXACTLY WHAT YOU WANT
THEREFORE IT'S FINALLY THEN
IT'S BROKEN.
TRY AND THINK THROUGH WHAT THE
OTHER FOLKS IN THE ROOM ARE
SAYING BECAUSE THAT'S WHAT
WE'RE TRYING TO DO.
I THINK I HONESTLY THINK THAT
WE'RE ALL DOING THAT IN GOOD
FAITH.
I HAVE NEVER GOTTEN A SECRET
MEMO FROM THE MAYOR TELLING ME
WHAT I MUST DO.
I DON'T KNOW WHERE THAT'S
COMING FROM THAT THIS IS HOW
SOME KIND OF A CORRUPT PROCESS
BECAUSE THE MAYOR IS TRYING TO
DRIVE EVERYTHING.
I'VE MET THE MAYOR I THINK ONCE
OR TWICE IN MY LIFE AND I
CERTAINLY HAVEN'T GOTTEN ANY
INSTRUCTIONS ON HERE'S WHAT YOU
SHOULD DO.
SO WE'RE ACTING IN GOOD FAITH
AND WE'RE TRYING TO DO THINGS
FOR THE BETTERMENT OF THE
COMMUNITY JUST AS EVERYBODY HAS
JUST BEEN DESCRIBING.
THIS IS OUR PLEA TO I GUESS THE
TEENAGERS ARE PLEADING PLEASE
SOME GRACE, PLEASE GIVE US SOME
GRACE AS WE'RE WORKING THROUGH
THIS DIFFICULT PROCESS.
I AM A LITTLE FRUSTRATED THAT I
GET TO HEAR SO MANY COMMENTS
AND I I'M LOOKING IN THE PLAN
WHERE IS THIS COMING FROM?
THERE'S NO MENTION ANYWHERE IN
THE PLAN ABOUT GETTING RID
OF GOLF COURSES.
WE HAD AN HOUR OF PUBLIC
COMMENT OR TWO LAST TIME
TELLING US HOW IT WAS HORRIBLE
THAT WE'RE PROPOSING TO GET RID
OF GOLF COURSES WHERE IS THAT
IN THE PLAN?
IT'S NOT IN THE PLAN.
SO IF YOU'RE HEARING THINGS
PEOPLE ARE TELLING YOU ABOUT
WHAT'S IN THE PLAN, PLEASE READ
THE PLAN.
THERE'S A LOT OF MATERIAL IN
THE PLAN ABOUT PROTECTING TREES
AND NATURAL FEATURES.
THERE'S ALSO CONCERN ABOUT
BALANCING THE NATURAL FEATURES
WITH THE NEED TO DEAL WITH THE
AFFORDABLE HOUSING CRISIS WHICH
IS REAL AND THE NEED FOR MIXED
INCOME HOUSING.
SO IT'S A BALANCING ACT.
THEY'RE GOING TO BE TRADE OFFS
IF WE PROTECT EVERY TREE IN THE
CITY IT'S GOING TO NEVER CUT
ANOTHER TREE.
WE'LL NEVER BE ABLE TO GROW AND
DEAL WITH THE KIND OF HOUSING
CRISIS THAT WE'RE DEALING WITH
.
NOTHING IN THE PLAN IS SEEN
THAT WE SHOULD GET RID OF ALL
OF OUR NATURAL FEATURES
PROTECTIONS.
IN FACT, THERE'S A LOT OF STUFF
IN THE PLAN THAT SAYS WE NEED
TO WORRY ABOUT PROTECTING OUR
FUTURES.
SO PLEASE PLEASE LOOK AT THE
PLAN AND SEE WHAT'S ACTUALLY
THERE INSTEAD OF WHAT PEOPLE
ARE PROJECTING AND TELLING YOU
COULD HAPPEN BASED ON I DON'T
KNOW WHAT WHERE SOME OF THOSE
SOME OF THOSE CLAIMS ARE COMING
FROM.
AND THEN FINALLY PLEASE READ
THE HOUSING APPENDIX.
THE STAFF PUT A LOT OF TIME TO
DO A REALLY GOOD CANVASING
OF THE LITERATURE.
WE'VE ALSO BEEN ACCUSED OF NOT
LOOKING AT THE FACTS AND JUST
THEN RESPONDING TO SPECULATION
AND THERE'S A LOT OF GOOD
EMPIRICAL EVIDENCE AND FACTS IN
THE HOUSING PANICS ABOUT THE
STRUGGLE THAT WE'RE DEALING
WITH ABOUT HOW TO DO THE THINGS
OF MY FELLOW PLAYING
COMMISSIONERS HAVE BEEN TALKING
ABOUT.
IT'S NOT IT'S NOT A MECHANICAL
ROCKET SCIENCE.
WE KNOW FOR SURE HOW TO PULL
THE LEVER THAT WILL MAKE THIS
HAPPEN.
THERE'S A LOT OF UNCERTAINTY IN
THE WORLD THAT'S GOING ON.
WE'RE DOING THE BEST WE CAN
WITH THE EVIDENCE WE HAVE IN
FRONT OF US.
THERE'S A LOT OF SPECULATION ON
HERE ABOUT HOW THIS IS GOING TO
BE THE DEMISE OF THE CITY AND
EVERYTHING THAT IS GOING TO
HAPPEN THAT HAS NO BASIS IN ANY
OF THE EMPIRICAL EVIDENCE.
SO PLEASE READ THE HOUSING
APPENDIX.
IT'S A REALLY WELL CRAFTED
THING.
PLEASE LISTEN TO THE OTHER
FOLKS MAKING COMMENTS.
THE FOLKS WHO DON'T AGREE WITH
YOU AND THINK ABOUT WHERE
THEY'RE COMING FROM.
THAT'S WHAT WE'RE OBVIOUSLY
TRYING TO DO AND FIGURE OUT HOW
TO RECONCILE THOSE THINGS.
>> PLEASE GIVE US SOME GRACE.
WE'RE DOING THE BEST THAT WE
CAN BECAUSE MY LITTLE PLEA AND
ALSO I JUST WANT TO RECOGNIZE
THIS IS REALLY CLUNKY PROCESS.
I KNOW PEOPLE WANT TO ENGAGE IN
A DIALOG.
THE REASON IT'S STRUCTURED THE
WAY IT IS IS TO AVOID GETTING
INTO SHOUTING MATCHES BETWEEN
COMMISSIONERS AND RESIDENTS.
SO IT'S NOT THAT WE'RE NOT
INTERESTED OR WE DON'T WANT TO
HEAR FROM YOU OR DO YOU WANT TO
ENGAGE THAT WAY?
IT'S JUST THAT IT'S STRUCTURED
IN A PARTICULAR WAY TO TRY AND
MAKE THINGS MOVE SLOWLY.
AND I WILL SAY COMMISSIONER
WEISS AND I HAD A REALLY LONG
TALK AFTER THE LAST MEETING AND
WE ARE STRUGGLING WITH THE
THINGS THAT PEOPLE ARE TALKING
ABOUT.
HE IS NOT TELLING ME HOW I
SHOULD THINK.
I'M NOT TELLING HIM HOW HE
I DON'T THINK WE AGREE ENTIRELY
SHOULD THINK.
ON EVERYTHING.
I DON'T THINK WE AGREE ENTIRELY
WE WOULD BE MORE THAN HAPPY TO
ON EVERYTHING.
GO TO A COFFEE SHOP.
WE WOULD BE MORE THAN HAPPY TO
THE TWO OF US AND ANYBODY ELSE
GO TO A COFFEE SHOP.
BUT NOT A HIM GROUP THAT WE
THE TWO OF US AND ANYBODY ELSE
HAVE TO NOTICE IT AN OPEN
BUT NOT A HIM GROUP THAT WE
MEETING PROBLEM.
HAVE TO NOTICE IT AN OPEN
I'D BE MORE THAN HAPPY TO GO TO
MEETING PROBLEM.
A COFFEE SHOP AND CHAT WITH ANY
I'D BE MORE THAN HAPPY TO GO TO
OF YOU IF YOU'VE GOT CONCERNS
A COFFEE SHOP AND CHAT WITH ANY
OR WANT TO OR WANT TO TELL ME
OF YOU IF YOU'VE GOT CONCERNS
WHAT YOU'RE THINKING OR HEAR
OR WANT TO OR WANT TO TELL ME
ABOUT WHAT I'M THINKING.
WHAT YOU'RE THINKING OR HEAR
I'M MORE THAN HAPPY TO EXPLAIN
ABOUT WHAT I'M THINKING.
THAT MORE.
I'M MORE THAN HAPPY TO EXPLAIN
WHY SHOULDN'T I?
THAT MORE.
VERY HAPPY TO DO THAT TOGETHER
WHY SHOULDN'T I?
IF YOU THINK YOU'D WANT TO OUR
VERY HAPPY TO DO THAT TOGETHER
PERSPECTIVES TOGETHER I NEED
IF YOU THINK YOU'D WANT TO OUR
THAT.
PERSPECTIVES TOGETHER I NEED
SO PLEASE IF YOU WOULD LIKE
THAT.
THAT JUST REACH
TO ONE OF US
HAVE TO SET THAT UP.
THANK YOU.
I HAVE SOME THOUGHTS ABOUT THAT
FROM INSPECTIVE IN TERMS
OF REPRESENTING THE COMMISSION
WE WOULD NOT BE WOULD NOT
REPRESENT WE WOULD NOT BE
BECAUSE THIS IS A BODY AND WE
CAN NOT REPRESENT A BODY
WITHOUT PERMISSION FROM THAT
BODY OUT LOUD.
IT WOULD BE LIKE YOUR
PERSPECTIVES HOW WE'RE TRYING
TO PERSONALLY NAVIGATE THROUGH
ALL OF THIS.
WE THANK YOU FOR THAT
CLARIFICATION.
WE WOULD NOT BE REPRESENTING
THE PLANNING.
>> I DO WANT TO ECHO
COMMISSIONER AND THANK YOU,
COMMISSIONER NORTON FOR YOUR
COMMENTS THAT WE WE DID HAVE A
VERY LONG CONVERSATION AT WHAT
TWELVE THIRTY A.M. LAST WEEK
ABOUT THE MEETING THAT WE HAD
JUST FINISHED AND WE THOUGHT,
YOU KNOW, ONE OF THE THINGS WE
COULD DO AS YOUR NEIGHBOR IS
MEET YOU AT A LOCAL COFFEE SHOP
AND BE HAPPY TO HEAR AND
RESPOND TO ANY QUESTIONS THAT
YOU HAVE.
OF COURSE WE ARE NOT PERMITTED
TO SPEAK ON BEHALF OF THE
COMMISSION WITHOUT THE
PERMISSION OF THE COMMISSION
BECAUSE THE COMMISSION IS A
BODY.
AND SO ASIDE FROM THAT SEND THE
EMAIL TO THAT COMMISSIONER
NORTON AND THEN HE'LL REACH OUT
TO ME SO THAT THERE'S ONLY ONE
PERSON YOU HAVE TO CONTACT.
I DID WANT TO JUST HIGHLIGHT
TWO THINGS IN MY QUICK COMMENT
IS ONE WE DO LISTEN TO ALL
OF YOUR QUESTIONS.
WE ARE OFTEN WRITING DOWN THE
THINGS THAT YOU ARE ASKING WE
ARE PREPARING RESPONSES FOR WE
OFTEN ASK TO PREPARE RESPONSES.
THEY GENERALLY DO THAT IN THE
FORM OF NEMOS WHEN WE HAVE
QUESTIONS ABOUT THINGS THAT WE
CAN'T ACCESS WRITE AT THE TABLE
SO NO ONE THE PLANNING MANAGER
PRODUCED A MEMO FOR THE
PLANNING COMMISSION DATED
JANUARY TWENTY FIFTH WHERE THE
PLANNING STAFF BROKE DOWN THE
NUMBER OF UNITS IN THE CITY.
THE CURRENT COUNT IS ABOUT
FIFTY THREE THOUSAND AND FIVE
HUNDRED AND FORTY SEVEN HOUSING
UNITS WITH A MARGIN OF ERROR
OF ABOUT TWENTY SEVEN HUNDRED
UNITS BECAUSE IT'S REALLY
DIFFICULT TO GET A PRECISE
NUMBER OF THOSE SIX PERCENT
OF THOSE HOUSING UNITS ARE
RENTAL UNITS.
THE REMAINING FORTY PERCENT ARE
OWNER OCCUPIED SINGLE FAMILY
LOTS WITHIN THE CITY SO JUST
WANTED TO PUT THAT OUT AND THEN
AGAIN YOU ASKED A QUESTION
ABOUT WHAT'S BEHIND THE UNIT
PROJECTIONS TO THE PLAN DOES
NOT MAKE ANY PROJECTIONS.
IT JUST SORT OF TELLS US WHAT'S
POSSIBLE AND SO IT'S A RANGE ON
THE LOW END I THINK IT'S ABOUT
EIGHTEEN THOUSAND HIRED IT
COULD BE NINETY SIX THOUSAND IN
TERMS OF WHAT THE PLAN COULD
PRODUCE.
THERE ARE MARKET FORCES THAT
ARE IN PLAY THAT WILL DECIDE
WHAT GETS BUILT.
>> THE CITY IN CONJUNCTION WITH
ITS HOUSING COMMISSION IS
TRYING TO BUILD ON THE LAND
THAT THE CITY OWNS.
WE KNOW ABOUT DUNBAR TOWER
WHICH I THINK IS ABOUT SEVENTY
UNITS THAT IS GOING ONLINE
TONIGHT.
THE GROVE WHICH WAS BUILT BY
AVALON HOUSING ACROSS THE
STREET FROM THE CHURCH THAT I
PASTOR HAD ITS RIBBON CUTTING
AND THEY HAVE FIFTY UNITS
OF AFFORDABLE HOUSING OF WHICH
THIRTY OR TWENTY ONE YEAH IT'S
ONE OR THE OTHER ARE
PERMANENTLY AFFORDABLE WHICH
MEANS THEY ARE AT THIRTY
PERCENT OF A AMAI OR THE AREA
MEDIAN INCOME AND THEN THE
OTHER THEY WILL THE OTHER
TWENTY I THINK THEY WILL MAKE
AVAILABLE THROUGH THEIR LOTTERY
SYSTEM AND THEN WE FINALLY HAVE
THE WILLOTT IS GOING ONLINE AND
I THINK THE LAST I HEARD ABOUT
THAT IS THE DEVELOPER COMMITTED
TO MAKE ALL OF THOSE UNITS
AFFORDABLE SO THAT CAN BE A
RANGE FROM 30 TO 80 PERCENT
OF AMAI AND I THINK THAT'S
THREE HUNDRED PLUS UNITS
OF AFFORDABLE HOUSING AND THEN
ARBER S WHICH CAME BEFORE THIS
COMMISSION AND A BRIGHT
DEVELOPMENT IS ALSO GOING TO
BRING ONLINE OVER TWO HUNDRED
UNITS OF AFFORDABLE HOUSING.
WE DO AS PLANNING COMMISSIONERS
GO TO DEVELOPER MEETINGS ACROSS
THE CITY WHEN THOSE OCCUR AND I
WAS ABLE TO ATTEND THE LAST
THREE OR TWO THAT WERE
ANNOUNCED AND I MET WITH THE
DEVELOPER WHO WAS GOING TO MAKE
A MARKET GREAT DEVELOPMENT AND
THEN SWITCHED IT TO AN 80
PERCENT RMI.
SO ALL OF THE UNITS IN THAT
DEVELOPMENT ARE NOW GOING TO BE
AFFORDABLE AT 80 PERCENT
OF EMI.
SO A LOT OF AFFORDABLE HOUSING
UNITS ARE BEING BUILT.
THEY'RE BEING BUILT BOTH BY THE
CITY THROUGH ITS HOUSING
COMMISSION, THROUGH OUR
PARTNERS LIKE AVALON HOUSING,
WHICH IS A AFFORDABLE HOUSING
DEVELOPER AND BY MARKET RATE
DEVELOPERS.
AND SO WE WON'T KNOW WHETHER
IT'S EIGHTEEN THIRTY THREE OR
NINETY NINE THOUSAND.
BUT THE PLAN IF FULLY
IMPLEMENTED COULD ALLOW FOR A
RANGE OF HOUSING UNITS FOR
THERE SO THAT'S SORT OF HOW WE
GOT TO THAT.
THAT'S NOT A SATISFACTORY
RESPONSE.
JUST EMAIL US AND WE'LL TRY TO
GET A BETTER RESPONSE ABOUT THE
HOUSING UNITS.
>> ANYONE ELSE ON THE
COMMISSION.
>> ALL RIGHT.
SO WE WILL NOW GO TO MANAGER
KELLY FOR ITEM NUMBER EIGHT
PUBLIC HEARINGS FOR OUR NEXT
SCHEDULED BUSINESS MEETING
WHICH I BELIEVE IS AUGUST 5TH.
YES, THE NEXT SCHEDULED MEETING
IS AUGUST FIFTY TWO PUBLIC
HEARINGS THAT I'M ABOUT TO READ
WERE NOTICED FOR FIVE THIRTY PM
YOU'LL HAVE A CHANCE TO ADJUST
YOUR SCHEDULE LATER IN THIS
AGENDA IF FOR SOME REASON THAT
TIME IS NOT ACCEPTABLE TO YOU,
THERE IS A POSSIBILITY FOR US
TO UPDATE IT BUT WE HAD TO
NOTICE IT BY A DEADLINE THIS
AFTERNOON THE FIRST PETITION
AND PUBLIC HEARING IS ONE
THOUSAND SEVEN WOODLAND AVENUE.
THIS IS REZONING WITH AN AREA
PLAN WAIVER REQUEST A PETITION
TO REZONE THE PROPERTY FROM
PARKING TO SEE ONE LOCAL
COMMERCIAL ELIMINATING THE
DISTRICT ON THIS BLOCK AND
EXPANDING THE EXISTING ONE
DISTRICT WITH THE REQUEST TO
WAIVE THE AREA PLAN REQUIREMENT
AS NO DEVELOPMENT IS PROPOSED.
THE SECOND PUBLIC HEARING FOR
AUGUST 5TH IS TWENTY FIVE
TWENTY FIVE ANN ARBOR SALEEN
ROAD.
THIS IS A REZONING AND SITE
PLAN FOR CITY COUNCIL APPROVAL
.
IT'S A PETITION TO REZONE THE
PROPERTY FROM OFFICE DISTRICT
TO OUR FOUR E MULTIFAMILY
DWELLING DISTRICT AND INCLUDE
THE SITE PLAN TO CONSTRUCT TWO
HUNDRED AND SIXTY TWO
RESIDENTIAL UNITS.
THE BUILDING WOULD BE FIVE
STORIES WITH THREE HUNDRED AND
SEVENTY NINE THOUSAND FOUR
HUNDRED FIFTY NINE SQUARE FEET
OF FLOOR AREA AND INCLUDE TWO
HUNDRED NINETY SEVEN VEHICLE
PARKING SPACES AND ONE HUNDRED
AND SIXTY FOUR BICYCLE PARKING
SPACES.
>> AS PART OF THE PROPOSAL THE
EXISTING CUT ON ANN ARBOR
SELINE WOULD BE MODIFIED.
A NEW CURB WOULD BE ADDED TO
BOOK DRIVE AND TWO NEW CROSS
WALKS WOULD BE INSTALLED ON
SITE.
THE FOUR POINT ONE SIX ACRE
SITE IS CURRENTLY VACANT.
>> THANK YOU MANAGER KELLY.
MOVING ON TO ITEM NUMBER NINE
UNFINISHED BUSINESS THERE IS ON
ITEM NUMBER TEN REGULAR
BUSINESS THERE IS NON I'M GOING
TO GIVE US A SIX MINUTE RECESS
AND WHEN WE RETURN WE WILL
START WITH ITEM NUMBER ELEVEN
AND OR AND WE HAVE NOW ARRIVED
TO ITEM NUMBER ELEVEN ON OUR
AGENDA.
THIS IS OUR ANNUAL
ORGANIZATIONAL MEETING WHERE WE
WILL ELECT OFFICERS.
WE WILL DISCUSS COMMITTEE
ASSIGNMENTS.
WE WILL REVIEW THE BYLAWS AND
THE ANNUAL WORK PLAN.
SO I'M STARTING WITH ELEVEN A
AND IT SAYS THERE IS A STAFF
PRESENTATION BY MANAGER KELLY.
YES.
I THOUGHT THAT IT MAY BE
HELPFUL TO SHARE ON SCREEN THE
MEMO THAT WAS PREPARED FOR YOUR
ANNUAL ORGANIZATION MEETING.
THERE ARE QUITE A NUMBER
OF THINGS HERE BUT I THINK
WE'LL BE ABLE TO GET THROUGH IT
SOMEWHAT SMOOTHLY.
WE'LL SEE WHEN IT COMES TO THE
BYLAWS.
BUT IN TERMS OF YOUR SELECTION
OF OFFICERS WILL BE FOLLOWING
THE SAME PROCESS THAT WE HAD
LAST YEAR WHICH SEEMED TO WORK
PRETTY WELL.
I'M GOING TO SHARE SCREEN GIVE
ME JUST A MOMENT AND SO THIS IS
THE MEETING THAT THIS VOTE IS
INTENDED TO TAKE PLACE AT
ACCORDING TO YOUR BYLAWS, ALL
COMMISSIONERS ARE ELIGIBLE FOR
A NOMINATION IN POSITIONS
EXCEPT FOR CURRENT OFFICERS WHO
HAVE SERVED TWO SUCCESSIVE
TERMS IN THE CASE OF THE
CURRENT SITTING BODY, THE ONLY
PERSON WHO FITS THAT
DESCRIPTION IS COMMISSIONER LEE
CANNOT CONTINUE TO SERVE AS
CHAIR, HOWEVER, IS ELIGIBLE FOR
OTHER POSITIONS AND COUNCIL
REDISH CANNOT SERVE ON YOUR
EXECUTIVE COMMITTEE SO THE
NOMINATION AND ELECTION PROCESS
IS FIRST I'LL ASK YOU IF YOU DO
NOT WISH OR YOU WISH TO BE
CONSIDERED FOR A NOMINATION.
WE'VE DONE THAT AND THEN THAT
WOULD BE PROVIDED THAT IS BELOW
AND THEN YOUR VICE CHAIR HAS A
SCRIPT THAT WILL ALLOW THIS TO
PROCEED WITH WITH VOTING SO
WE'LL START WITH NOMINATIONS
FOR CHAIR RUN THROUGH A VOTE
AND THEN PROCEED TO NOMINATIONS
FOR VICE CHAIR HAVE A VOTE THEN
PROCEED TO NOMINATIONS FOR
SECRETARY AND HAVE A VOTE.
THE IDEA IS THAT YOU WOULD SAY
I WOULD LIKE TO NOMINATE AND
THEN YOU STATE THE NAME
OF SOMEONE WHO IS WILLING TO
ACCEPT A NOMINATION UNTIL
EVERYONE WHO IS WILLING YOU CAN
SELF NOMINATE AS WELL UNTIL ALL
OF THOSE NOMINATIONS FOR PEOPLE
WILLING TO ACCEPT HAVE BEEN
MADE AND THEN WE WILL HAVE A
VOTE AND WHEN YOU VOTE YOU
WOULD SAY THE NAME OF WHO YOU
WOULD LIKE TO VOTE FOR INSTEAD
OF I AND WE GO AROUND NAME BY
NAME YOU JUST WHEN YOU VOTE YOU
SAY, YOU KNOW, I WOULD LIKE TO
NOMINATE PERSON X OR NOT
NOMINATE BUT I VOTE FOR PERSON
X.
>> IS THAT ENOUGH TO PROCEED
WITH THE STARTER ACTION FOR
CHAIR?
YES, MR. RIGHT.
OK, YOU DO HAVE I HAVE A SCRIPT
TO SCRIPT.
I'M GOING TO READ THE SCRIPT WE
WILL NOW PROCEED TO THE
ELECTION OF OFFICERS.
>> I'LL START BY PRESENTING THE
LIST OF COMMISSIONERS WILLING
TO ACCEPT NOMINATIONS FOR EACH
POSITION FOR CHAIR WHICH AND
MILLS HAVE EXPRESSED
WILLINGNESS TO SERVE FOR VICE
CHAIR LEE ABRAMS AND MILLS HAVE
EXPRESSED WILLINGNESS TO SERVE
FOR SECRETARY HAMMERSCHMIDT
ABRAMS AND MILLS HAVE EXPRESSED
WILLINGNESS TO SERVE
WILL BEGIN
THE NOMINATIONS WITH CHAIR.
ARE THERE ANY NOMINATIONS FROM
THE FLOOR COMMISSIONER ABRAMS
SAID THAT ADAMS I WOULD LIKE TO
NOMINATE COMMISSIONER WHITE OR
CHAIR NOMINATE COMMISSIONERS
AND SO NOW I THANK YOU.
>> NOMINATIONS HAVE BEEN MADE
AND SO I WILL CHECK WITH
COMMISSIONER MILLS FIRST ON
WHETHER OR NOT SHE WILL ACCEPT
THE NOMINATION FOR CHAIR YES.
>> YES, YES.
I WAS WILLING TO BE NOMINATED.
>> YOU CAN DECLINE LIKE LIKE I
I FEEL LIKE I BECAUSE I'M
ESTIMATING THE THREAT MY MO I
DON'T NEED TO SERVE AS CHAIR.
>> I'M WILLING TO TO WITHDRAW
MY NOMINATION.
>> OK, SO YOU ARE INDICATING
THAT YOU WILL NOT ACCEPT THE
NOMINATION.
CORRECT.
THANK YOU COMMISSIONER ADAMS.
YOU'RE GOOD WITH THAT WITH HER
REJECTION OF YOUR NOMINATION.
YES.
ALL RIGHT GREAT.
I MEAN I JUST WANT TO CHECK OK,
ARE THERE ANY OTHER NOMINATIONS
FOR CHAIR HEARING ON I DECLARE
THE NOMINATIONS FOR CHAIR
CLOSED AND THIS IS A LITTLE
AWKWARD BECAUSE I'M UP FOR
CHAIR.
I'M SORRY.
I DO ACCEPT MY NOMINATION FOR
CHAIR.
WOULD SOMEONE LIKE TO MAKE A
MOTION TO PROCEED TO THE
ELECTION OF CHAIR COMMISSIONER
DISH COUNCIL MEMBER DISH MOVES
IS THERE A SECOND SECOND OK
SECOND BY COMMISSIONER ADAMS
BABELAND ADAMS ALSO RAISED HIS
HANDS.
HE DID BUT I WAS LOOKING AT YOU
I'M SORRY.
ALL RIGHT.
IT HAS BEEN MOVED DECIDED THAT
WE PROCEED TO THE ELECTION
OF CHAIR OH NOPE THE SCRIPT IS
WRONG SO JUST DO WHATEVER YOU
KNOW BECAUSE IT'S JUST ONE
NOMINEE SO WE CAN'T DO THIS
GIVEN THAT THERE IS ONE NOMINEE
WHO HAS TO SEPARATE THE
NOMINATION FOR CHAIR, ALL THOSE
IN FAVOR SAY I I THE OPPOSE YOU
SAY NO THE AYES HAVE IT AND NOW
WE WILL PROCEED TO THE
ELECTION.
OH I SEE WHAT I SEE WITH THIS
SCRIPT WAS SUPPOSED TO DO I
THINK I JUST DID BOTH THE
MOTION AND THE VOTE SO I DON'T
THINK WE NEED TO DO THE SECOND
PART.
IS THAT OK?
YEAH I'LL I'LL WRITE IN FAVOR
AND SO THAT CARRIES AND YOU
HAVE A NEW CHAIR.
>> GREAT.
THANK YOU ALL.
HAPPY TO SERVE AS YOUR CHAIR
UNFORTUNATELY I WILL NOT BE
HERE NEXT WEEK SO AT THE NEXT
MEETING WE WILL BE ON VACATION.
NO NO IT'S THE AUGUST 5TH.
OK CONGRATULATIONS TO OUR NEW
CHAIR.
WE WILL NOW MOVE ON TO THE
ELECTION OF VICE CHAIR.
I'M JUST READING THE SCRIPT AND
THE SCRIPT HASN'T IT YET SO I'M
JUST GOING TO GO BACK TO THE
PEOPLE WHO HAVE ACCEPTED ARE
WILLING TO ACCEPT A NOMINATION
FOR VICE CHAIR.
OUR COMMISSIONER IS LEE ABRAMS
AND MILLS, YOU COULD ACCEPT
NOMINATIONS FOR THOSE NAMES.
YES.
I'M JUST GOING TO GO BACK OVER
THIS SINCE IT DIDN'T CONTINUE
DOWN SO DO DO DO DO ARE THERE
ANY FURTHER NOMINATIONS FOR
VICE CHAIR OK HERE AGAIN I
DECLARE THE NOMINATIONS FOR
VICE CHAIR CLOSED WITH SOMEONE
SORRY THE NOMINATIONS SHOULD BE
FORMALLY MADE ALTHOUGH THOSE
ARE THE PEOPLE WHO ARE WILLING
TO ACCEPT NOMINATIONS.
WE SHOULD HAVE A FORMAL
NOMINATION ITSELF.
>> NOMINATIONS ARE ACCEPTABLE
SO LET'S START OVER.
THANK YOU.
MANAGER KELLY WILL BEGIN WITH
THE NOMINATIONS FOR VICE CHAIR.
ARE THERE ANY NOMINATIONS FROM
THE FLOOR?
ALL RIGHT.
WE'LL START WITH HAMMERSCHMIDT
.
>> I NOMINATE COMMISSIONER
ABRAMS FOR VICE CHAIR.
OK, AND THEN COMMISSIONER MILLS
I NOMINATE COMMISSIONER LEAF
FOR VICE CHAIR.
OK, ARE THERE ANY FURTHER
NOMINATIONS FOR VICE CHAIR?
OK HEARING NONE.
>> I NOW DECLARE THE
NOMINATIONS FOR VICE CHAIR
CLOSE.
WE HAVE TWO CANDIDATES WE HAVE
LEE AND ABRAMS.
IS THAT CORRECT?
GREAT.
SO WHAT WOULD SOMEONE LIKE TO
MAKE A MOTION TO PROCEED TO THE
ELECTION OF VICE CHAIR SO MOVED
BY COMMISSIONER DESH COUNCIL
MEMBER DISH IS THERE A SECOND
SECOND BY COMMISSIONER WHETHER
IT BE IT HAS BEEN MOVED AND
SECONDED THAT WE PROCEED TO THE
ELECTION OF VICE CHAIR?
I'M JUST GOING TO DO IT THE WAY
THE SCRIPT IS AND THEN WE'LL
VOTE THROUGH THE ROLL CALL THE
WAY THAT THE SCRIPT SAYS ALL
THOSE IN FAVOR SAY I ANY OPPOSE
SAY NO.
THE AYES HAVE IT.
SO NOW WE'LL PROCEED TO THE
ELECTION OF VICE CHAIR.
THE PLANNING MANAGER WILL DO A
ROLL CALL VOTE AND WHEN YOU
VOTE PLEASE INDICATE EITHER
EARLY OR ABRAM'S AS YOUR CHOICE
.
COMMISSIONER WISCH ABRAM'S
COMMISSIONER COMMISSIONER
APRON'S ABRAMS ABRAN COUNCIL
BRITISH APRON'S COMMISSIONER
MILLS ABRAMS COMMISSIONER
WETHERBEE ABRAM'S COMMISSIONER
ADAMS HEYWARD'S AND
COMMISSIONER ABRAMS DE THE
VOTES ARE AS FOLLOWED A OH YES
COMMISSIONER ABRAMS HAS
RECEIVED THE MAJORITY OF THE
VOTES AND IS ELECTED VICE CHAIR
.
CONGRATULATIONS TO ALL RIGHT
NOW WE WILL MOVE TO THE
ELECTION OF SECRETARY SO WE'LL
BEGIN WITH THE NOMINATIONS FOR
SECRETARY.
ARE THERE ANY NOMINATIONS FROM
THE FLOOR?
ALL RIGHT, COMMISSIONER, OUR
COUNCIL OF BRITISH I NOMINATE
COMMISSIONER HAMMERSCHMIDT.
ALL RIGHT.
DO WE HAVE ANY OTHERS
HEARING?
>> NONE.
I DECLARE THE NOMINATIONS FOR
SECRETARY CLOSED.
WOULD SOMEONE LIKE TO MAKE A
MOTION TO PROCEED TO THE
ELECTION OF SECRETARY BY
COUNCIL MEMBER DISH?
IS THERE A SECOND?
COMMISSIONER ADAMS IS THE
SECOND.
SO IT HAS BEEN MOVED AND
SECONDED THAT WE PROCEED TO THE
ELECTION OF SECRETARY ALL THOSE
IN FAVOR OF MOVING TO THE
ELECTION OF SECRETARY I
SUPPOSE?
NO, THE AYES HAVE IT.
WE WILL NOW USE A ROLL-CALL
VOTE.
WELL ACTUALLY THERE IS ONLY ONE
CANDIDATE SO ANOTHER VOICE VOTE
YES IT WILL DO A VOICE VOTE
HERE ALL THOSE IN FAVOR
OF ELECTING COMMISSIONER
HAMMERSCHMIDT AS SECRETARY VOTE
I SUPPOSE.
>> ALL RIGHT.
CONGRATULATIONS ARE IN THE NEXT
MEETING YOU ARE CHAIRING THE
NEXT MEETING.
OK, THANK YOU ALL AND SORRY FOR
THE LITTLE KERFUFFLE ON THE
VICE CHAIR.
SO NOW WE ARE ON TWO COMMITTEES
AND LIAISON'S THAT IS CORRECT
COMMITTEES AND LIAISON ARE LET
ME SHARE SKURNIK AND GIVE ME
JUST ONE MOMENT SO ANOTHER TASK
IS TO JUST CONFIRM YOUR
COMMITTEE AND LIAISON
DESIGNATIONS AS DISCUSSED IT
YOUR WORKING SESSION.
THE ENVIRONMENTAL COMMISSION IS
REORGANIZING INTO A
SUSTAINABILITY COMMISSION.
IT WILL N LONGER MAINTAIN A
PLANNING COMMISSION LIAISON AND
THE COMPREHENSIVE PLAN REVIEW
SUBCOMMITTEES DISSOLVED SO THE
FOLLOWING ACTION WOULD
FORMALIZE ALL COMMITTEE AND
LIAISON APPOINTMENTS.
SOMEONE COULD MOVE THAT
COMMISSIONER APPOINTMENTS AS
REFLECTED IN THE STAFF REPORT
BE APPROVED FOR REFERENCE THESE
ARE THE THIS IS WHAT IS IN THE
STAFF REPORT.
THESE ARE THE ASSIGNMENTS AND
THEN WE WOULD UPDATE THE TABLE
WITH TONIGHT'S ELECTION RESULTS
CORRECT?
YES.
COMMISSIONER MILLS.
>> OH, I WAS GOING TO MOVE.
OH YOU ARE READY TO ACCEPT OK,
SO I'M GOING TO READ I'M GOING
TO READ THE MOTION THE PERSON
WHO WOULD LIKE TO BE THE FIRST
MOVER COULD ALSO READ IT.
GREAT.
ALL RIGHT, COMMISSIONER ILSE,
WOULD YOU LIKE TO SIT YOU HAVE
IT ON YOUR SCREEN.
SHOULD I HAVE SCREENED SO I
WOULD LIKE TO MOVE WITH THE
COMMISSIONER APPOINTMENTS
REFLECTED IN THE STAFF REPORT
BE APPROVED THAT INCLUDING THE
RESULTS OF THE ELECTION THAT WE
JUST FELT GREAT.
IS THERE A SECOND SECONDED BY
CABINET ABRAMS ANY DISCUSSION
OF THE MOTION?
C NONE.
CAN WE DO A VOICE VOICE VOTE OR
DO WE NEED TO DO A ROLL CALL?
>> VOICE VOTE IS FINE.
ALL THOSE IN FAVOR SAY I OPPOSE
THE AYES HAVE IT NOW WE MOVE TO
OUR BYLAWS.
YES THIS WAS ALSO FEATURED IN
YOUR WORKING SESSION LAST
TUESDAY TO DISCUSS WHETHER AND
IF THE COMMISSION HAS ANY
INTEREST IN USING THIS ANNUAL
ORGANIZATIONAL MEETING TO GIVE
ADDITIONAL FLEXIBILITY IN HOW
PUBLIC COMMENTS ARE DELIVERED
AT YOUR MEETINGS TO FACILITATE
ACTION ITEMS.
THERE ARE A NUMBER OF WAYS THAT
THIS COULD BE ACCOMPLISHED.
I WAS ASKED TO LEAVE THE MOTION
OPPORTUNITY SOMEWHAT OPEN SO
THERE COULD BE THE OPPORTUNITY
FOR MULTIPLE EXCUSE ME I NEED
TO PUT ON TWO PAGE SCROLLING ON
HERE
BUT THERE COULD BE THE
OPPORTUNITY TO HAVE A MS TO
YOU.
ALL RIGHT.
THAT'S NOT HAPPENING.
>> MULTIPLE MOTIONS AND
DISCUSSION ON EACH.
HOWEVER THE STAFF
RECOMMENDATION FOR SIMPLICITY
TO FACILITATE MEETING
MANAGEMENT IS TO HAVE A TWO
MINUTE PER SPEAKER PUBLIC
COMMENT LIMIT AND ALSO TO GIVE
THE CHAIR AND PLANNING MANAGER
ADDITIONAL FLEXIBILITY
ADJUSTING AGENDA ORDER AND
COMPONENTS.
FOR EXAMPLE, AT YOUR JANUARY
I'M SORRY AT YOUR JULY FIRST
MEETING THERE WERE TWO
PETITIONS WITH PUBLIC HEARINGS
AND THOSE PETITIONER TEAMS WERE
THE SORT OF DIDN'T KNOW WHEN
PUBLIC COMMENT WOULD END AND
THEY NEEDED TO SIT AROUND FOR
QUITE A LONG PERIOD OF TIME IF
THE CHAIR HAD THE ABILITY TO
ADJUST THE AGENDA ITEMS IN A
WAY THAT YOUR CURRENT BYLAWS DO
NOT ALLOW THEN THE PUBLIC FIRST
PUBLIC COMMENT PERIOD COULD
HAVE BEEN MOVED UNTIL AFTER
THAT WAS PUBLIC HEARINGS.
THAT'S AN EXAMPLE OF WHAT THAT
WOULD ACCOMPLISH.
SO THIS YOU CAN OPEN FOR
DISCUSSION.
I'M HAPPY TO DESCRIBE ANYTHING
ELSE FROM THE STAFF REPORT OR
OUR LOGIC.
>> IT SHOULD NOT LET ME CAN I
TAKE THE PULSE OF THE TABLE?
I THINK THERE WAS GENERAL
AGREEMENT ON NUMBER THREE.
OK, YOU OK?
SO CAN WE START WITH NUMBER
THREE AND THEN WE CAN BACK INTO
THE THE TIME COMMISSIONER ADAMS
START WITH THREE THAT NOT ONLY
DOES WE BREAK SO LET'S START
WITH ITEM THREE MANAGER AND
THEN WE'LL START WITH
COMMISSIONER ABRAM'S THANK YOU
THEN COMMISSIONER MILLS, I
WOULD VOTE IN SUPPORT OF NUMBER
THREE WHICH IS PROVIDING SOME
FLEXIBILITY ON ADJUSTING THE
AGENDA ORDER.
THE COMMENT THAT I WANTED TO
MAKE IS JUST THAT WHILE I
UNDERSTAND THE INCONVENIENCE
OF ASKING THE PETITIONERS TO
WAIT THROUGH WAIT FOR THREE
HOURS OF PUBLIC COMMENT THE
MEETING I ALSO WANT TO WEIGH
THAT AGAINST ASKING MEMBERS
OF THE PUBLIC TO WAIT FOR AN
HOUR OR AN HOUR AND A HALF TO
MAKE THEIR PUBLIC COMMENT WHILE
WE GO THROUGH OTHER AGENDA
ITEMS AND THOSE ARE PEOPLE WHO
HAVE TAKEN TIME OUT OF THEIR
BUSY LIVES TO COME HERE AND
MAYBE BABYSITTERS OR SO I GUESS
I UNDERSTAND THE DESIRE FOR THE
FLEXIBILITY BUT FOR ME IT WOULD
NOT BE AS SIMPLE FORMULA OF IF
THERE'S GOING TO BE A LOT
OF PUBLIC COMMENT THAT WE BUMP
IT AFTER THE PETITIONERS
BECAUSE I'M NOT SURE HOW TO
PRIORITIZE THAT.
SO I JUST WANTED TO PUT THAT ON
THE TABLE.
THANKS.
THANK YOU.
>> COMMISSIONER MILLS.
I HAD A SIMILAR THOUGHT WHICH
IS I WOULD BE IN SUPPORT
OF ALLOWING THAT FLEXIBILITY
PRIOR TO THE AGENDA BEING
PUBLISHED.
BUT ONCE IT'S PUBLISHED, SOME
OF THOSE LATER AGENDA ITEMS
ACTUALLY A PUBLIC HEARINGS
ASSOCIATED WITH THEM AND IF
THOSE PEOPLE DON'T COME RIGHT
AWAY BECAUSE THEY KNOW THAT
THEY ARE LATER ON THE AGENDA
THAT WANT TO SPEAK FOR THAT, I
WOULD SAY THAT THAT CONCERNS ME
A LITTLE BIT.
SO I WOULD RATHER US UNLESS
THERE IS SOMETHING THAT WE CUT
FROM THE AGENDA BECAUSE IT IS
NOT READY.
I WOULD I THINK IT'S HELPFUL WE
PUBLISH THE AGENDA SO THAT
PEOPLE KNOW WHEN TO SHOW UP FOR
DIFFERENT THINGS.
BUT I WOULD KEEP IN THAT ORDER
PERSONALLY SO YOUR SUPPORT IS
DEPENDING ON WHEN WHEN YOU NEED
IT IS JUST LIKE I WOULD YOU
WOULD WANT IT BEFORE THE
MEETING, BEFORE THE MEETING,
BEFORE THE AGENDA IS PUBLISHED.
EXACTLY.
BUT IT GOES INTO JUST REGISTAR
THE SAT FRIDAY BEFORE THE
TUESDAY MEETING.
CORRECT.
SO IT WOULD HAVE TO BE SIX
POINT RIGHT.
>> BUT SO IN MY MIND IF THE
CHAIR AND THE PLANNING MANAGER
KNOW THAT SOMETHING'S BREWING,
WE'VE ALREADY GOT A SENSE
OF HOW MANY LETTERS ARE IN OR
SOMETHING WHERE WE ANTICIPATE
THERE'S GOING TO BE A LONG A
LONG PUBLIC COMMENT PERIOD.
I THINK YOU COULD MOVE THAT
THEN BUT BEFORE IT'S PUBLISHED
LIKE OBVIOUSLY YOU CAN'T READ A
ROOM AT THAT POINT BUT BUT I
DON'T I WOULD PREFER NOT TO
MOVE THINGS AROUND AT THE AT
THE MEETING AT THE MEETING.
>> OK, ARE THERE OTHER
COMMENTARIES?
YES.
COMMISSIONER WEATHERBEE, I I
LIKE THE IDEA OF HAVING
FLEXIBILITY JUST BECAUSE ON
OCCASION WE HAVE SEEN
SITUATIONS WHERE SOMEBODY HAS
TO LEAVE OR SOMEBODY HAS TO
COME IN.
SO WHILE I AGREE THAT GENERALLY
I DON'T THINK WE SHOULD MOVE
THINGS AROUND AT THE MEETING, I
LIKE THE IDEA OF HAVING THE
FLEXIBILITY TO DO TO MAKE
CHANGES BASED ON NEED OR WHICH
HOPEFULLY ISN'T VERY OFTEN AND
ISN'T VERY MUCH BUT I THINK
HAVING THAT FLEXIBILITY IS
HELPFUL.
OK, I JUST HAVE A PROCEDURAL
QUESTION BECAUSE WHEN WE COME
OUR FIRST ITEM IS TO APPROVE
THE AGENDA BUT WE COULD MODIFY
THE AGENDA AT THE APPROVAL
PROCESS, CORRECT.
AT LEAST ROBERT'S RULES
OF ORDER WOULD ALLOW US TO DO
THAT.
YOU COULD ACCEPT THAT YOUR
BYLAWS ADDITIONALLY STIPULATE
THERE WILL BE TWO PUBLIC
COMMENT PERIODS AT THE
BEGINNING AND END OF THE
MEETING AND IT'S STIPULATE THE
COMMENT TIME COREPER SPEAKER SO
THAT I WOULDN'T YEAH IT
WOULDN'T ACCOMPLISH WHAT WE
WOULD WANT TO DO.
>> IT WAS JUST A PROCEDURAL
QUESTION.
OTHER COMMENTS.
>> YES, WE'RE TALKING ABOUT
NUMBER THREE.
I THINK THE WAY WE HAD THE
CONVERSATION LAST WEEK AT THE
WORK SESSION IS WE WERE TALKING
ABOUT THEM BOTH FLUIDLY AND SO
IT WAS SORT OF LIKE A SELF
ADJUSTING TYPE OF APPROACH.
BUT BOTH COMMISSIONER ABRAM'S
AND MILLS DIDN'T HAVE THE
OPPORTUNITY TO GIVE US THEIR
FEEDBACK AT THE WORK SESSION.
YES, COMMISSIONER ABRAM'S AND
JUST TO BE CLEAR, THE BYLAW
CHANGE WOULD GIVE THE PLANNING
MANAGER OR THE CHAIR THE
AUTHORITY TO CHANGE IT AT THEIR
DISCRETION.
THIS IS LIKE WE WE AS A BODY
CURRENTLY VOTE TO APPROVE THE
AGENDA BUT WE WOULDN'T BE DOING
THAT IF YOU WOULDN'T CONTINUE
TO DO THAT.
SO WE CHAIR A VOTE ON THE
CHANGE TO THE AGENDA, THE
REARRANGING OF THE YEAH.
SO THE CHAIR COULD GET INTO THE
ROOM SO THAT THE OPPORTUNITY
FOR ONE TO YES.
EXPRESS DISSENT, DECIDE THAT WE
DIDN'T SUPPORT THE CHANGE.
YES.
OK, OK COMMISSIONER NORDON OK
BUT I'M CONFUSED NOW BECAUSE IF
WE ADOPT THREE BUT THEN WE ADD
THE QUALIFIER THE COMMISSIONER
ALSO STATED THAT WE DON'T
CHANGE ENOUGH.
IT HAS BEEN PUBLISHED AND WE
CAN'T CHANGE THE AGENDA BECAUSE
IT'S ALREADY BEEN PUBLISHED.
>> RIGHT.
SO WE HAVEN'T TAKEN HER COMMENT
UP YET.
SO WE'RE WE'RE STILL JUST
GIVING THE BYLAWS THE
DISCRETION.
WE HAVEN'T TAKEN UP THE
RESTRICTION COMMISSIONER MILLS
HAS GIVEN US.
WE'RE DISCUSSING IT OK, I'M
POINTING OUT THERE'S AN
INCONSISTENT WITH THE COLUMN
THAT IF WE PROVIDE THAT
QUALIFICATION THEN WE MIGHT AS
WELL NOT BOTHER TO MAKE THE
CHANGE BECAUSE YOU ARE CORRECT.
WHAT GOOD WOULD YOU DO SO I
THINK I'M MORE INCLINED TO BE
IN FAVOR OF ALLOWING THE AGENDA
TO BE ADJUSTED ON A MOTION WITH
THE COMMITTEE DECIDING BECAUSE
SOMETHING'S HAPPENED AND IT'S
CLEAR THAT THAT'S GOING TO BE
REALLY DISRUPTIVE IF IT BECOMES
CLEAR THAT THERE ARE PEOPLE WHO
AREN'T HERE YET BECAUSE THEY
WERE EXPECTING IT TO COME LATER
THAN WE JUST THOUGHT AT THAT
POINT OUGHT TO CHANGE THE
AGENDA IS THE WAY I WOULD THINK
OF THE REASON IT THROUGH.
I THINK BEING REMINDED I MEAN I
KNOW THAT WE APPROVED THE
AGENDA BUT KNOWING HOW THAT
WOULD HAPPEN I AM MUCH MORE
COMFORTABLE WITH THAT AND I'LL
JUST SAY JUST LIKE I HAVE FEELS
ABOUT AREA PLANS AND FEELS
ABOUT THIS RIGHT.
LIKE I WOULD WANT IT TO BE USED
JUDICIOUSLY BUT I DO THINK THAT
HAVING THAT FLEXIBILITY DOES
MAKE SENSE IF A PETITION I MEAN
THIS MIGHT HAPPEN FOR OTHER
THINGS TO THE PETITIONERS NOT
HERE FOR SOMETHING RIGHT WHERE
WE HAVE TO MOVE THINGS AROUND.
EXACTLY.
SO I'M COOL WITH THAT I I
BECAUSE SO LONG AS THE WAY THAT
THIS IS TRANSLATED IN WRITING
IS THAT THE CHAIR OR PLANNING
MANAGER PROPOSED AND IT'S TO US
TO DECIDE TO APPROVE THAT
CHANGE IN THE AGENDA ORDER I
WOULD BE COOL WITH THAT MANAGER
KELLY.
I JUST WANTED TO SHARE THE
WHATEVER MOTION YOU DECIDE TO
EVENTUALLY FORMALIZE AND IT'S
FORMULATED IN A WAY THAT YOU
DIRECT US TO REPRESENT THESE
OPTIONS TO YOU IN A MORE
SPECIFIC FORMAT AND THEN I
WOULD BE TAKING WHATEVER OUR
OUR BEST INTERPRETATION OF YOUR
MOTION IS AND INTO THE ACTUAL
RED LINE OF THE BYLAWS AND
RUNNING IT BY OUR CITY
ATTORNEY.
>> SO YOU WILL SEE THIS AGAIN.
OK, DOES ANYONE WANT TO ATTEMPT
TO CODIFY INTO MOTION WHAT WE
JUST DISCUSSED COMMISSIONER
NORDON?
I MOVE TO ASK THE PLANNING
STAFF TO TO TO DRAFT A FORMAL
AMENDMENT THAT WOULD MODIFY THE
BYLAWS TO ALLOW THE CHAIR AND
PLANNING MANAGER TO PROCEED TO
MOVE TO MODIFY AN AGENDA AT THE
START OF A MEETING TO PROVIDE
FLEXIBILITY SUBJECT TO APPROVAL
BY THE FULL PLANNING COMMISSION
.
DO WE HAVE A SECOND
COMMISSIONER SO THAT IT CLEAR
THAT RIGHT.
>> THAT'S CLEAR ENOUGH SO TO
ALLOW THE CHAIR AND PLANNING
MANAGER TO MODIFY THE AGENDA AT
THE START
OF THE MEETING FOR
FLEXIBILITY BUT THAT HAS TO BE
A PROJECT APPROVAL BY THE
SUBJECT SUBJECT TO APPROVAL BY
MEMBERS TO THE COMMISSION.
YEAH.
SO IT WOULD JUST TO CLEAN IT UP
WE COULD ALSO SAY THAT IT WOULD
BE THE CHAIR OR THE PLANNING
MANAGER PROPOSING AN AGENDA
CHANGE UNDER ITEM NUMBER THREE.
SO WE WOULD JUST LIVE WHERE IT
ALREADY EXISTS BUT NOW THE
BYLAWS WOULD PERMIT IT WHERE
THE BYLAWS DOES NOT PERMIT.
>> YEAH I MEAN MAYBE YOU COULD
SAY THIS SPECIFIC TOO.
I MEAN WE'RE REALLY JUST
TALKING ABOUT THE PUBLIC
COMMENT PERIOD.
SO YOU COULD SAY I WOULD
PROPOSE SOMETHING LIKE WHAT DO
WE I MOVE THE FOLLOWING BYLAW
CHANGES BE DRAFTED AND REFERRED
TO THE CITY ATTORNEY FOR REVIEW
TO ALLOW THE CHAIRMAN PLANNING
MANAGER FLEXIBILITY IN
ADJUSTING THE AGENDA ORDER A
PUBLIC COMMENT SUBJECT IS
SUBJECT TO APPROVAL.
>> SURE.
SO THE ORIGINAL MOVE ARE YOU OK
WITH THAT CHANGE?
AND COMMISSIONER MILLS' AS A
SECOND ARE YOU OK WITH THAT
CHANGE?
OK, CAN WE DISCUSS THAT?
ARE THERE ANY DISCUSSION ITEMS
ABOUT THAT?
OK DO SO WE THIS IS A MOTION SO
WE GET TO VOTE ON THIS DO CAN
WE DO A VOICE VOTE OR DO WE
HAVE TO DO A ROLL CALL.
WE COULD START WITH A VOICE
VOTE.
SURE.
ALL THOSE IN FAVOR SAY I BUY
ANY OF THOSE GREAT BY OK WITH
THAT.
ALL RIGHT LET'S TALK ABOUT
NUMBER ONE ON THIS ONE.
>> YES.
COMMISSIONER ADAMS RIGHT.
I SORT OF STUMPED FOR OPTION TO
SO OPTION ONE IS NOT MY
PREFERENCE BUT I'LL I'LL
SUPPORT HERE IF FOLKS ARE GOING
TO DO I THINK DEMOCRACY THAT
HAPPENS AFTER ELEVEN O'CLOCK IS
GOOD DEMOCRACY.
I DON'T THINK IT'S TRANSPARENT.
I ALSO THINK THAT YOU KNOW I'VE
SPOKEN IN FRONT OF COUNSEL AND
PLANNING A NUMBER OF OCCASIONS.
>> I THINK IT IS TOTALLY
POSSIBLE TO GET YOUR MESSAGE
ACROSS IN TWO MINUTES AND
THAT'S REALLY WHAT WE'RE
TALKING ABOUT HERE.
SO WE ALREADY HAVE A SPEAKING
VERY LIMITED SPEAKING SO THAT'S
FULLY COMPATIBLE WITH PUBLIC
ENGAGEMENT, PARTICIPATORY
DEMOCRACY.
THE QUESTION IS SHOULD IT BE
THREE OR TWO WE'RE ROUTINELY
SEEING AND WE WILL BE SEEING AS
WE DO SO WHERE ROUTINELY SEEING
OUR MEETINGS STRETCH OUT INTO
THE WEE HOURS AND I JUST DON'T
BELIEVE THAT THAT'S GOOD FOR
PUBLIC ENGAGEMENT.
MEMBERS OF THE PUBLIC OUGHT TO
BE ABLE TO WATCH OUR MEETINGS
IN REAL TIME WITHOUT HAVING TO
STAY UP TILL MIDNIGHT AND WHEN
COUNCIL'S RULES WERE DIFFERENT
AND I WAS A MEMBER OF THE
PUBLIC WATCHING THOSE MEETINGS
IT WAS IMPOSSIBLE FOR ME TO
STAY UP THAT LATE.
I HAD KIDS.
I HAD A JOB THAT'S JUST NOT A
GOOD PROCESS.
THE IMPACT OF SOMEBODY HAVING
TO TAKE THEIR COMMENT THAT THEY
WOULD NORMALLY HAVE THREE
MINUTES TO SAY AND SQUISH IT
INTO WHO TO ME IS NOT
PARTICULARLY MATERIAL TO PUBLIC
THE PUBLIC'S RIGHT TO ENGAGE.
BUT WHEN WE'VE HAD 30 TO 50
PUBLIC COMMENTERS GETTING THOSE
MINUTES BACK TO HELP US MOVE
THROUGH OUR AGENDA, CONDUCT OUR
BUSINESS, NOT DELAY PETITIONS,
THAT'S REALLY MATERIAL THE
OTHER AND ALSO TWO OTHER THINGS
THAT I DIDN'T SAY DURING THE
WORKING SESSION IF THE STAKES
OF VOLUNTEERING FOR ONE
OF THESE POSITIONS IS THAT YOU
HAVE TO ROUTINELY BE HERE UNTIL
SEVEN TO 12 O'CLOCK AT NIGHT,
WE'RE NOT GOING TO VOLUNTEER
FOR THESE PETITIONS OR THESE
POSITIONS AND THAT'S NOT GOOD
FOR LOCAL DEMOCRACY.
IT'S ALSO NOT HEALTHY FOR OUR
STAFF.
WE WILL NOT GET MEMBERS WE LIKE
PEOPLE WILL NOT WANT TO WORK
FOR THE CITY IF EVERY ONE
OF OUR MEETINGS GO THIS IS
LATE.
WE HAVE TO FIND A WAY TO MOVE
THROUGH OUR AGENDA IN AN
ORDERLY WAY AND I BELIEVE ALL
THE PUBLIC FEEDBACK WE GOT WAS
WELL YOU'RE REACTING TO
NEGATIVE FEEDBACK THIS PROPOSAL
ALLOWS THE SAME AMOUNT AND
QUANTITY OF NEGATIVE FEEDBACK
TO COME MY WAY.
IT'S NOT ABOUT MY FEELINGS OF ,
YOU KNOW, NOT WANTING TO HEAR
THE PUBLIC.
I WANT TO HEAR THE PUBLIC BUT
IT'S ABOUT MAKING SURE THAT OUR
BUSINESS IS BEING CONDUCTED IN
A SENSIBLE WAY.
SO I WANT TO MAKE A MOTION FOR
THE THE TWO MINUTE LIMIT.
>> OK, WHY DON'T YOU START WITH
A MOTION AND LET'S SEE IF WE
CAN GET A SECOND.
I WANT TO MAKE SURE I'M
FOLLOWING SCRIPTED TONIGHT SO
HOLD I MOVE TO I MOVE THAT THE
FOLLOWING BYLAW CHANGES BE
DRAFTED AND REFER TO THE CITY
ATTORNEY FOR REVIEW BY ONE ON
THE STAFF REPORT WHICH STATES
LIMIT PUBLIC COMMENT TO TWO
MINUTES PER SPEAKER.
>> IS THERE A SECOND
COMMISSIONER SORRY COUNCIL
MEMBER DISHES SECOND AND NOW
WE'RE IN DISCUSSION COUNCIL
MEMBER DISH SO I'M NOT SURE I
HAVEN'T DECIDED ON THIS YET.
I DID WANT TO MAKE AN
OBSERVATION AND THAT IS THAT
WHEN WE GET TO ZONING THE THE
MEETINGS WHERE WE ARE ACTUALLY
VOTING ON A ZONING CHANGE THAT
IS RELATED TO THE COMPREHENSIVE
AND HIS PLAN, THOSE WILL BE
PUBLIC HEARINGS AND THOSE CAN'T
BE LIMITED.
I DON'T KNOW IF THE A LIMITED
NUMBER OF MINUTES FOR SPEAKERS
AT A PUBLIC HEARING CAN BE
LIMITED.
YES, I BELIEVE THAT THEY COULD
I DID NOT SCOUR YOUR BYLAWS IN
PARTICULAR FOR THAT BUT I CAN
TAKE A LOOK AT THAT IF YOU MAKE
THE MOTION I MEAN IT IT SAYS
PUBLIC COMMENT BUT THAT IS ALSO
A PUBLIC COMMENT.
>> SO I COULD TAKE A LOOK AT
THAT AT THE SAME TIME IF THIS
PROCEEDS OK, THAT WOULD BE
GOOD.
SO WE EVERYONE WHO WANTS TO
SPEAK AT A PUBLIC HEARING MUST
BE ABLE TO SPEAK.
>> THEY WILL BE ABLE TO SEE
THEY WILL BE ABLE TO SPEAK AND
WE'RE HAPPY TO HAVE THIS RIGHT
THE PUBLIC HEARINGS YOU CAN'T
CORRECT.
AND SO THAT THE ACTUALLY THAT
THE TWO MINUTE LIMIT IS A VERY
EFFECTIVE CHANGE FOR US TO MAKE
BECAUSE IT IT WILL FACILITATE
MORE PEOPLE GETTING TO SPEAK
AND A MEETING THAT DOESN'T GO
PAST 2:00 IN THE MORNING AT THE
PUBLIC HEARINGS FOR ZONING SO
THAT I THINK THAT THAT POINT
THAT THOUGH THAT WHEREAS NUMBER
TWO THE OPTION TO THAT WE
AREN'T CONSIDERING MAKES A
CHANGE THAT CANNOT BE EXTENDED
TO PUBLIC HEARINGS.
BUT THIS CHANGE CAN HOLD ACROSS
THE BOARD FOR COMMENT AT
PLANNING COMMISSION MEETINGS.
SO THAT IS JUST AN OBSERVATION.
>> COMMISSIONER WETHERBEE.
SO I'M GOING TO BE VOTING NO ON
THIS.
I THINK THAT THREE MINUTES IS
NOT A LONG TIME.
WHAT IT'S SOMETHING THAT'S YOUR
LIVELIHOOD OR YOUR PLACE
OF RESIDENCE.
I THINK A LOT OF PEOPLE ARE
NERVOUS WHEN THEY COME HERE AND
THEY FEEL UNCOMFORTABLE
FORMULATING SENTENCES AND I
THINK IF YOU ARE USED TO PUBLIC
SPEAKING THAT CAN SEEM LIKE A
LONG TIME.
BUT BUT I DON'T LIKE THE CHANGE
AND I ESPECIALLY DON'T LIKE THE
CHANGE DURING A TIME OF WHERE
WE ARE GETTING A LOT OF PEOPLE
I CAN SEE ACTUALLY MAKING THIS
CHANGE WHEN WE'VE HAD 30 BORING
MEETINGS IN A ROW AND YOU KNOW
AND IT'S NOT GOING TO FEEL LIKE
AN INFRINGEMENT ON PEOPLE'S
RIGHTS TO SPEAK.
I REALIZE PEOPLE CAN WRITE IN
PEOPLE CAN SPEAK.
I JUST DON'T I DON'T LIKE TO
MAKE THAT CHANGE.
I DON'T THINK IT'S A GOOD
PUBLIC IMPRESSION.
IT DOES GIVE THE IMPRESSION
BECAUSE WE ARE LIMITING
PEOPLE'S RIGHT TO SPEAK AND
WHETHER THAT'S DONE TO ALLOW
MORE PEOPLE OR NOT, I THINK
THAT'S IT'S NOT GOING TO COME
ACROSS THAT WAY.
AND I DON'T LIKE THE IDEA OF OF
GIVING THAT IMPRESSION.
I ALSO THINK THAT WE WE
DEFINITELY USE TIME OF DAY AS
LIKE WHEN IT I MEAN ALL OF US
DO I'VE DONE THIS WHERE IT
SUITS US.
NOT EVERYBODY WORKS THE SAME
HOURS.
NOT EVERYBODY LIVES THE SAME
ELEVEN O'CLOCK MIGHT BE A TIME
HOURS.
WHERE OTHER WHERE SOME PEOPLE
ELEVEN O'CLOCK MIGHT BE A TIME
CAN COME IN LIKE I THINK USING
WHERE OTHER WHERE SOME PEOPLE
THAT AS A AS WELL YOU KNOW
CAN COME IN LIKE I THINK USING
PEOPLE CAN ONLY SPEAK BETWEEN
THAT AS A AS WELL YOU KNOW
SEVEN THIRTY AND NINE THIRTY
PEOPLE CAN ONLY SPEAK BETWEEN
EFFICIENTLY I THINK IS JUST
SEVEN THIRTY AND NINE THIRTY
EVERYBODY HAS THEIR OWN
EFFICIENTLY I THINK IS JUST
SCHEDULES, EVERYBODY HAS THEIR
EVERYBODY HAS THEIR OWN
OWN TIME WHEN THEY CAN OR
SCHEDULES, EVERYBODY HAS THEIR
CANNOT DO THINGS.
OWN TIME WHEN THEY CAN OR
SO I THINK IT'S HARD TO USE
CANNOT DO THINGS.
THAT AS LIKE EVERYONE IS IN BED
SO I THINK IT'S HARD TO USE
BY 11:00 OR EVERYONE CAN COME
THAT AS LIKE EVERYONE IS IN BED
TO A MEETING AT 7:00 OR LIKE
BY 11:00 OR EVERYONE CAN COME
IT'S JUST WE HAVE A LOT OF WIDE
TO A MEETING AT 7:00 OR LIKE
RANGING PEOPLE SO BEING LIKE I
IT'S JUST WE HAVE A LOT OF WIDE
JUST I THINK WE SHOULDN'T LIMIT
RANGING PEOPLE SO BEING LIKE I
PEOPLE AND AS YOU CAN SEE I
JUST I THINK WE SHOULDN'T LIMIT
TEND TO BE CHATTY.
PEOPLE AND AS YOU CAN SEE I
SO I I WOULD PREFER THREE
TEND TO BE CHATTY.
MINUTES WHEN I SPEAK AND AND I
SO I I WOULD PREFER THREE
JUST THINK THIS IS A BAD TIME
MINUTES WHEN I SPEAK AND AND I
TO CHANGE OTHER COMMENTERS.
JUST THINK THIS IS A BAD TIME
COMMISSIONER MILLS, I WAS JUST
TO CHANGE OTHER COMMENTERS.
GOING TO SAY I DID LISTEN ALSO
COMMISSIONER MILLS, I WAS JUST
TO THE WORK SESSION AND I WON
GOING TO SAY I DID LISTEN ALSO
COMMISSIONER WEATHERBY'S THAT
TO THE WORK SESSION AND I WON
THIS WORK SESSION LAST WEEK I
COMMISSIONER WEATHERBY'S THAT
WAS I WAS THINKING THE SAME
THIS WORK SESSION LAST WEEK I
THING I AGREE I'M NOT
WAS I WAS THINKING THE SAME
NECESSARILY OPPOSED TO THE
THING I AGREE I'M NOT
CHANGE.
NECESSARILY OPPOSED TO THE
I DON'T THINK THAT NOW IS THE
CHANGE.
TIME TO MAKE THAT CHANGE.
I DON'T THINK THAT NOW IS THE
SO I WILL BE VOTING NO.
TIME TO MAKE THAT CHANGE.
>> OK, COMMISSIONER
SO I WILL BE VOTING NO.
HAMMERSCHMIDT.
>> OK, COMMISSIONER
>> SO I CAN'T REMEMBER I THINK
HAMMERSCHMIDT.
I'M ALSO NOT REALLY SURE WHERE
>> SO I CAN'T REMEMBER I THINK
I STAND ON THIS PARTICULARLY
I'M ALSO NOT REALLY SURE WHERE
AFTER LISTENING TO SOME PUBLIC
I STAND ON THIS PARTICULARLY
COMMENT ABOUT IT.
AFTER LISTENING TO SOME PUBLIC
I'M I'M ACTUALLY LIKE I DON'T
COMMENT ABOUT IT.
HATE NO.
I'M I'M ACTUALLY LIKE I DON'T
FOUR, WHICH WE'RE NOT EVEN
HATE NO.
TALKING ABOUT POTENTIALLY
FOUR, WHICH WE'RE NOT EVEN
GIVING THE CHAIR THE ABILITY TO
TALKING ABOUT POTENTIALLY
MODIFY THE COMMENT LENGTH AT
GIVING THE CHAIR THE ABILITY TO
THE TIME OF THE MEETING BASED
MODIFY THE COMMENT LENGTH AT
ON THE VOLUME OF COMMENTERS
THE TIME OF THE MEETING BASED
ACCORDING TO THE INTERNET.
ON THE VOLUME OF COMMENTERS
AND I DID FIND THE LIVE ARTICLE
ACCORDING TO THE INTERNET.
THAT IS BEHIND A PAYWALL CITY
AND I DID FIND THE LIVE ARTICLE
OF IPSI FOR THE CITY COUNCIL
THAT IS BEHIND A PAYWALL CITY
MEETINGS JUST IMPLEMENTED
OF IPSI FOR THE CITY COUNCIL
SOMETHING LIKE THIS LAST FALL.
MEETINGS JUST IMPLEMENTED
>> I DON'T KNOW THE DETAILS
SOMETHING LIKE THIS LAST FALL.
BECAUSE I JUST FOUND IT BUT I
>> I DON'T KNOW THE DETAILS
THINK IT'S I THINK IT WAS LIKE
BECAUSE I JUST FOUND IT BUT I
IF THERE'S THEY HAVE TO HAVE
THINK IT'S I THINK IT WAS LIKE
PEOPLE SIGN LIKE OUR CITY
IF THERE'S THEY HAVE TO HAVE
COUNCIL DOES.
PEOPLE SIGN LIKE OUR CITY
BUT THEN IF IT'S MORE THAN
COUNCIL DOES.
THIRTY PEOPLE THE CHAIRMAN'S
BUT THEN IF IT'S MORE THAN
SAY OK, WE'RE LIMITING IT TO
THIRTY PEOPLE THE CHAIRMAN'S
TWO MINUTES INSTEAD OF THREE
SAY OK, WE'RE LIMITING IT TO
MINUTES.
TWO MINUTES INSTEAD OF THREE
SO I MEAN AT LEAST IN THAT WAY,
MINUTES.
YOU KNOW, THERE'S ONLY FIVE
SO I MEAN AT LEAST IN THAT WAY,
PEOPLE HERE HOW THINGS WERE IN
YOU KNOW, THERE'S ONLY FIVE
THE BEFORE TIMES WHERE IT
PEOPLE HERE HOW THINGS WERE IN
WASN'T A BIG DEAL.
THE BEFORE TIMES WHERE IT
THE PEOPLE HAD THREE MINUTES
WASN'T A BIG DEAL.
JUST BECAUSE NOBODY CAME
THE PEOPLE HAD THREE MINUTES
BECAUSE WE WEREN'T POPULAR.
JUST BECAUSE NOBODY CAME
THERE'S NOT A PROBLEM.
I THINK WE HAVE DEFINITELY BEEN
FEELING THE RAMIFICATIONS
OF THROUGH OUR PUBLIC COMMENTS
AND LIKE HOW THAT IMPEDES OUR
DISCUSSIONS DUE TO TIREDNESS
AND THINGS LIKE THAT.
I MEAN I THAT WOULD BE MORE
AMENABLE TO THE BODY OR NOT
BECAUSE I'M REALLY NOT REALLY
CONFLICTED.
MY MANAGER I'M GOING TO ADD A
SMALL ASTERISK AT THE PRESENT
COMPANY EXCLUDED FROM THE
COMMENT ABOUT OUR POPULAR
POPULARITY.
OK, I'M STARTING THIS WAY
BECAUSE SOMETIMES I DON'T FAVOR
MY RIGHT OK, ALL RIGHT.
SO WE'LL GO TO COMMISSIONER
ABRAMS AND THEN WEATHERBEE.
I ALSO AM REALLY STRUGGLING
HERE.
I AGREE WITH EVERYTHING THAT
COMMISSIONER ADAM SAID ABOUT
THE INEFFECTIVENESS OF US
MEETING LATE INTO THE NIGHT.
BUT I ALSO AM REALLY VERY
RELUCTANT TO DO ANYTHING THAT
WOULD LIMIT THE ABILITY FOR THE
PUBLIC TO COME AND SPEAK BEFORE
US.
SO IF I IF I FACTOR THE
UNIQUENESS OF THIS MOMENT AND
THE THE COMPREHENSIVE IN USE
PLAN AND I UNDERSTAND THAT WHEN
WE GO TO IMPLEMENTING AND
UPDATING THE UDC AND THE ZONING
ORDINANCE, THOSE ALL PUBLIC
HEARINGS WHICH WILL IT FEELS
LIKE ALL WE'RE DOING IS
ADDRESSING THESE FEW MEETINGS
THE MAJORITY WHICH ALREADY
HAPPENED AND THAT BY AND LARGE
FOR THE MOST PART THERE IS
REALLY NOT AN ISSUE WITH THE
THREE MINUTE TIME.
WHAT I FEEL IS THAT THERE'S NO
PERFECT SOLUTION HERE BUT I
THINK I'M GOING TO IN END COME
DOWN.
I'M NOT LIMITING PUBLIC COMMENT
EVEN THOUGH I THINK IT IS A
PROBLEM THAT WE ARE HERE SO
LATE.
SO I'M WRESTLING THAT AS WELL.
>> COMMISSIONER, BE JUST FROM
MY PERSPECTIVE AS BEING SOMEONE
WHO CAME HERE TO GIVE COMMENTS,
I WOULD WRITE THEM OUT AND
PRACTICE THEM WHEN I WAS
COMING.
SO HAVING A THREE MINUTE OR A
TWO MINUTE CHANGE SUDDENLY
WOULD HAVE BEEN VERY DIFFICULT
IF WE WANT PEOPLE TO HAVE WELL
PRACTICED MEANINGFUL COMMENTS,
I THINK WE WANT WE DON'T WANT
TO CHANGE THE TIME.
YEAH, OK.
I HAVE COMMENTS BUT I WANT TO
MAKE SURE I HEAR FROM EVERYONE
BEFORE I SPEAK COMMISSIONER AND
SO WE CAN SAY AND I MAY GO DOWN
IN FLAMES HERE NONE OF THE
PEOPLE THAT I KNOW WHO ARE
PASSIONATE ABOUT THE SUBJECT
MATTER THAT WE'VE DISCUSSING
CAN SHOW UP TO THESE MEETINGS.
NONE OF THEM CAN BECAUSE THEY
THEY THEY ARE INTIMIDATED BY
THE LENGTH OF THEM THE FACT
THAT THEY MAY HAVE TO WAIT TWO
TO THREE HOURS TO TALK BUT
THAT'S THAT THAT IS A SILENT
DETERRENT THAT KEEPS PEOPLE
AWAY FROM WHAT WE'RE DOING
HERE.
AND IT DID AND I KNOW IT DID
FOR ME WHEN ANAPOLIS SCHOOLS
HAD THEIR BIG BROUHAHA OVER
LIKE FIRING SWIFT AND ALL THAT.
NOW GRANTED THEY HAVE LIKE ONE
MINUTE COMMENT OR SOMETHING
LIKE THAT BUT I WAS INTIMIDATED
BY THE IDEA OF GOING TO A BIG
AUDITORIUM AND THEN I TELL LISA
LIKE I'LL BE HOME AT TEN.
YOU KNOW, I WANT TO GO AND TALK
FOR A MINUTE BUT I'LL BE HOME
AT TEN THAT THAT DOES OPERATE
TO DETER PUBLIC ENGAGEMENT WITH
OUR BODY.
SO I JUST WANT TO BE UP FRONT
ABOUT YOU KNOW, AGAIN THAT
BETWEEN TWO AND THREE I GET FOR
AN INDIVIDUAL SPEAKER TO ME
FEELS SMALL FOR OUR AGENDA.
IT'S A HUGE RIGHT ESPECIALLY
WITH THESE BIG MEATY TOPICS
WHICH ARE NOT GOING TO STOP.
AND THE OTHER THING IS AND I
RECOGNIZE THAT WE'RE PROBABLY
GOING TO GO BACK TO SHORTER
MEETINGS IN THE NEAR FUTURE
MAYBE BUT WE'RE NOT EVER GOING
TO HAVE AN AFTER ACTION REPORT.
I PROCESS IMPROVEMENTS TO MAKE
THE NEXT PLAN PROCESS GO
SMOOTHER.
THE THINGS THAT WE BARIUM
BYELAWS WILL LIKELY STICK AND
THE LITTLE EASTER EGGS TO MAKE
THE NEXT TIME THE NEXT ROUND
OF PLANTERS THAT GO THROUGH
THIS IT WILL BENEFIT THAT AND
THEY'LL STOP THERE AND SAY NO
MORE ABOUT THIS
.
COMMISSIONER MILSOM, I'D RATHER
TAKE THIS UP NEXT YEAR
PERSONALLY LIKE I DON'T I'M
WITH YOU BUT WE SHOULD BE
LEARNING LIKE WHAT MIGHT THIS
LOOK LIKE AND MY VERY FIRST
PLANNING COMMISSION MEETING WAS
WITH NEXEN FARMS.
IT WAS LIKE ONE IT WAS A LOT IT
WAS A LATE LATE PLANNING
COMMISSION MEETING.
>> MY FIRST TWO PLANNING
COMMISSION MEETINGS WERE SO SO
LATE AND I MEAN BLESSEDLY LIKE
THAT BUT IT HAS COME AND GONE
RIGHT.
BUT THAT'S NOT THE NORM AND SO
LET'S NOT FORGET THIS AND THINK
ABOUT PROCESS.
I CAN ACTUALLY AFTER THAT I
FEEL LIKE THERE WERE SOME
OF THE CHANGES THAT WE MADE
INTO THE INTO OUR BYLAWS ABOUT
WHEN WE TAKE UP ADDITIONAL
THINGS AND KIND OF THINKING
ABOUT JUST THE VOLUME OF THINGS
THAT COMES BEFORE US, I WOULD I
DON'T THINK I CAN MAKE THIS
CHANGE NOW.
I DON'T THINK THAT NOW IS THE
TIME TO MAKE THIS CHANGE.
COMMISSIONER OR THE IS LOOKING
AT ME.
I TOTALLY UNDERSTAND ALL
OF THESE COMMENTS AND THE
DILEMMA I THINK I'M FALLING
DOWN ON THIS ISN'T THE TIME TO
DO THIS.
IT'S NOT THE TIME TO DO THIS.
WE SHOULD LEARN ABOUT THE
PROCESS AND MAKE IT IMPROVED
AFTER WE GET THROUGH THIS
SERIES OF MEETINGS.
>> BUT I'LL VOTE NO ON THIS
MOTION COUNCIL MEMBER DISH.
I JUST WANT TO SAY THAT THE
EQUITY CONCERNS THAT
COMMISSIONER ADAMS IS RAISING
ARE REAL.
>> THEY ARE COMPELLING.
I THINK THEY ARE CORRECT.
THERE'S A WONDERFUL ARTICLE
EITHER CHAPTER IN A BOOK I
THINK IT'S CHAPTER DEMOCRACY IS
AN ENDLESS MEETING AND THAT
TITLE DOES NOT MEAN TO
RECOMMEND IT.
>> IT TALKS ABOUT ALL THE
PEOPLE WHO GET PRICED OUT
OF THESE INCREDIBLY LONG
MEETINGS.
SO I I THINK THAT THAT POSITION
IS RIGHT.
I ALSO THINK THAT WE ARE IN A
CONTEXT WHERE THERE IS A LOT
OF SUSPICION AND A LOT
OF MISINFORMATION AND TO MAKE A
CHANGE THAT LOOKS LIKE WE ARE
NOT WANTING TO HEAR DISSENT
BECAUSE THAT IS HOW WILL BE
FRAMED.
THIS IS NOT THIS IS A TIME WHEN
THOSE VERY EXCELLENT ARGUMENTS
CAN'T POSSIBLY HAVE A HEARING
IN PUBLIC.
AND SO I THINK WE ARE BETTER
OFF NOT TO MAKE THIS CHANGE NOW
.
OK, I THINK I HAVE THE COMMENTS
I WAS GOING TO MAKE I THINK
HAVE BEEN MADE BUT I'LL JUST BE
SURE.
SO ONE THE THE THING THAT THE
LIMITATION ON THE PUBLIC
COMMENT IS NOT THE SAME FOR THE
PUBLIC HEARING THE NEXT WERE IN
VERSION TWO OF THE PLAN.
WE MAY HAVE A VERSION THREE AND
THEN IT'S OFF TO A CITY COUNCIL
.
SO THAT MAY BE IN THREE
MEETINGS WE'LL BE FINISHED WITH
EVERYTHING AND OFF TO CITY
COUNCIL WITHIN THREE REGULAR
MEETINGS.
WELL, THAT DEPENDS.
BUT YES, SO IS IT POSSIBLE I
KNOW WE HAVE A PLACEHOLDER IN
JULY TO DO BYLAW REVIEW AND
THAT'S WHAT WE'RE DOING.
SO WE ARE DOING WHAT WE ARE
SUPPOSED TO BE DOING.
THIS CONVERSATION IS
APPROPRIATE.
THIS IS THE TIME TO LOOK AT
BYLAWS.
CAN WE PICK UP BYLAWS AT ANY
TIME?
>> YES, YOU COULD YOU COULD ADD
BYLAWS OUTSIDE OF AN ANNUAL
REVIEW.
I THINK THAT'S JUST SORT
OF HYGIENE ITEM THAT'S PUT IN
TRYING TO MAKE SURE THEY DON'T
STAGNATE.
OK, SO IF I AM HEARING THE
TABLE CORRECTLY THERE IS
APPREHENSION TO TAKE THIS UP
TONIGHT AND TO MAKE ANY
MATERIAL CHANGE TO PUBLIC
COMMENT.
AM I HEARING THE TAPE
CORRECTLY?
OK, WE DO HAVE A MOTION AND
UNLESS THE ORIGINAL MOTION
WITHDRAWS WE SHOULD HAVE A VOTE
ON IT.
LET'S VOTE ON IT.
ALL RIGHT.
LET'S DO A ROLL CALL VOTE FOR
THIS.
>> SURE.
ON THE MOTION AS PRESENTED TO
LIMIT PUBLIC COMMENTS SPEAKING
TIME TO TWO MINUTES
COMMISSIONER WHICH NO
COMMISSIONER HAMMERSCHMIDT NO
COMMISSIONER MILLS' NO
COMMISSIONER ABRAM'S NO
COUNCILMAN REDISH NO
COMMISSIONER WETHERBEE NO.
>> COMMISSIONER ADAMS.
YES.
COMMISSIONER NORTON KNOW THAT
CRISPI OK THANK YOU.
NAME EVERYONE.
>> CAN WE JUST PUT UP PLAYSKOOL
THERE FOR NOVEMBER TO JUST
CHECK IN TO SEE IF THERE IS
APPETITE AT THAT POINT TO LOOK
AGAIN I ACTUALLY DO HAVE A
PLACE RIGHT PUT PLACEHOLDERS SO
I CAN SPOT NO HOW ABOUT ELEVEN
EIGHTEEN PLACEHOLDER OR BYLAWS.
THAT SOUNDS LIKE A GOOD TIME
FOR ME TO OK SO GIVEN THAT WE
ARE NOT NO WE ARE AMENDING THE
BYLAWS WE AMENDED TO PERMIT THE
CHAIR AND THE PLANNING MANAGER
THE FLEXIBLE FOR THE LAWYERS TO
BRING SOMETHING BACK TO US.
>> IF I'M LOOKING AT THE MEMO
THAT YOU'VE PUT TOGETHER FOR
US, DO WE DO WE NEED TO DO THE
NEXT TWO?
>> SO DO WE NEED TO DO AN
AFFIRMATION?
YES.
IF THERE'S IF YOU ARE
CONCLUDING THE AGENDA OR THE
ITEM FOR BYLAWS, WE CAN MOVE ON
TO WORK PROGRAM.
>> OK, SO I WAS GOING TO ASK
ARE THERE ANY OTHER BYLAW ITEMS
THAT WE WOULD LIKE TO LOOK AT
OR REVIEW AT THIS TIME
?
COMMISSIONER, I WOULD LIKE TO
DISCUSS THIS PROPOSAL TO ADD
PUBLIC COMMENT FOR ITEMS WHICH
HAVE A PUBLIC HEARING REMOVED.
CAN WE HAVE A DISCUSSION
OF THAT WHICH IS IN THE STAFF
REPORT?
>> YES, I APOLOGIZE.
YES, I WOULD LIKE THAT ACTUALLY
TO BE THAT COULD BE A VOICE
VOTE BUT THAT WAS DISCUSSED
THAT YOU'RE WORKING ON AS WELL.
>> AND SO THIS IS THE NEXT ITEM
WHICH IS THE ELIMINATION
OF PUBLIC HEARING REQUIREMENTS
FOR SITE PLANS THAT PLANNING
COMMISSION HOWEVER PLANNING
COMMISSION MEETING SHOULD BE
RESTRUCTURED TO ALLOW PUBLIC
COMMENT FOR EACH SITE PLAN THAT
APPEARS ON THE AGENDA.
YES, THANK YOU.
THERE IS A PROPOSED MOTION THIS
IS A PART OF THE PACKAGES THAT
WE RECEIVE FROM COUNCIL THAT
ARE IN COUNCIL FLOATING
FORMALLY A SECOND HEARING
SECOND READING EXCUSE ME ON
THIS ON JULY 21ST.
SO BY THE TIME THIS COMES BACK
TO THIS TABLE AT POTENTIALLY WE
COULD ADD IT TO AN AUGUST
MEETING IF IT'S READY BY THEN
WE WOULD KNOW WHICH WAY COUNCIL
DECIDED TO VOTE ON THAT ITEM
ONE SEVEN TWENTY ONE.
BUT THIS SORT OF PRESUPPOSES
THAT THEY WOULD DO THAT.
ALL RIGHT.
BACK TO COMMISSIONER ABRAM'S
JUST A CLARIFYING QUESTION.
SO THE DIFFERENCE HERE BETWEEN
A PUBLIC COMMENT PERIOD AND
PUBLIC HEARING IS ABOUT
NOTIFICATION, IS THAT CORRECT?
PUBLIC HEARINGS UNLESS YOU ARE
FOLLOWING THE STATE STATUTE
WOULD BE NOTICED IN THAT
NEWSPAPER OF RECORD AND THEN IN
THE UDC SPECIFIES HOW LONG IN
ADVANCE AND AND IT'S TWO WEEKS
,RIGHT?
>> YES, I BELIEVE SO.
BUT WE IN PRACTICE HAVE TO DO
SO LIKE THREE OR FOUR WEEKS IN
ADVANCE.
SO I JUST WANTED THAT TO BE
CLEAR FOR ANYONE FROM THE
PUBLIC IS WONDERING WHY WE
WOULD WHY THERE MIGHT BE AN
ACTION TO REMOVE PUBLIC HEARING
AND ADD PUBLIC COMMENT THAT THE
DIFFERENCE THERE IS ABOUT
NOTIFICATION.
SO A COMMENT PERIOD WOULD I
GUESS THE NOTIFICATION THERE
WOULD BE WHEN THE AGENDA IS
RELEASED WHICH IS THE FRIDAY
BEFORE OUR TUESDAY MEETINGS,
THE FORMAT AND AS OF NOW THE
LENGTH OF COMMENT WOULD BE THE
SAME AS WHAT AS A PUBLIC
HEARING AS IT CURRENTLY IS THEN
CAN I CLARIFY BOTH FOR MYSELF
AND THE PUBLIC THAT THIS THESE
ARE BY RIGHT SITE PLANS?
THIS WOULD BE FOR ANY ANYTHING
WHICH THIS BODY APPROVED AND
FORWARDED TO CITY COUNCIL IN
THE U.D. BATCH OF UDC
AMENDMENTS RESPONDING TO THE
ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT RESOLUTION
.
SO I BELIEVE IT'S ALL PUBLIC
HEARINGS FOR ALL SITE PLANS BUT
THOSE WOULD BE SITE PLANS THAT
END AT OUR TABLE.
>> YES.
SO THINGS THAT REQUIRE A PUBLIC
HEARING ACCORDING TO STATE
STATUTE SITE PLANS THAT
ACCOMPANY A REZONING THOSE WILL
CONTINUE THOSE WITH CONTINUED
PUBLIC HEARING CORRECT AND BE
NOTICED ACCORDINGLY.
YEAH, OK, COMMISSIONER
HAMMERSCHMIDT, ANOTHER
CLARIFYING QUESTION.
SO RIGHT NOW IN OUR AGENDA WE
HAVE OTHER ITEMS ON THE PUBLIC
HEARING AT THE NEXT REGULAR
BUSINESS MEETING RIGHT.
SO SINCE THESE WON'T BE PUBLIC
HEARINGS OF PUBLIC COMMENT, HOW
LONG IN ADVANCE WILL WE KNOW
THAT THEY'RE ON THE AGENDA?
>> THAT'S WHAT I'M YEAH.
WHAT DAY IS IT POSSIBLE THAT
SOMETHING COULD SHOW UP FOR A
SITE PLAN THE FRIDAY BEFORE?
SO WE'RE JUST HEARING ABOUT IT.
THE PUBLIC'S JUST HEARING ABOUT
YES.
THERE ARE I MEAN IT WOULD NOT
BE ANY LATER THAN THE FRIDAY
BEFORE YOUR MEETING.
THERE ARE SOME WAYS THAT WE
MIGHT BE ABLE TO RELEASE
INFORMATION ABOUT UPCOMING
KNOWN AGENDA THE SITE PLANS BUT
THAT IT IS CHALLENGING BECAUSE
THE PURPOSE OF THESE BATCH
OF CHANGES WAS TO GIVE
FLEXIBILITY.
FOR EXAMPLE, IF A SITE PLAN IS
CLOSE BUT IT'S WAITING ON
SOMEBODY TO RESOLVE A SOLID
WASTE ISSUE TO MAK THAT
DETERMINATION VERY CLOSE TO THE
DEADLINE FOR THE AGENDA.
SO SOMETIMES WE HAVE SITE PLANS
WHICH WE'VE TOLD PEOPLE NO,
THERE'S NO WAY YOU'RE GETTING
ON THAT AGENDA BUT WITH THIS
CHANGE, IF IT WERE IF IT IS TO
BE APPROVED BY THE COUNCIL
WOULD GIVE US A LOT MORE
FLEXIBILITY TO AT A LATER HOUR
ADD ITEMS FOR ACTION FOR VOTING
ACTION ONTO YOUR AGENDA.
SO WE I CAN'T GUARANTEE THAT WE
JUST WE ALWAYS KNOW BUT WE
DON'T REQUIRE PUBLIC HEARING
ANYMORE.
SO NO, WE'RE JUST NOT GOING TO
TELL ANYBODY LIKE SOMETIMES IT
REALLY IS DOWN TO THE WIRE AND
THAT WAS THE INTENTION.
YEAH, IT'S A NO LATER THAN A
FRIDAY BEFORE BUT I GUESS LIKE
SAY YOU DO KNOW CAN IT CAN CAN
IN THAT PUBLIC HEARING SECTION
IN THE AGENDA CAN WE.
>> IS IT POSSIBLE ALSO SAY LIKE
THIS ISN'T FOR A PUBLIC HEARING
BUT WE KNOW IT MAYBE TWO WEEKS
LIKE YOU WOULDN'T KNOW IF IT
WAS GOING TO BE ON THE AGENDA
YET BUT LIKE IF THERE WERE I
THINK LIKE WHAT YOU SAID LIKE
ANY SORT OF LIKE ADVANCE
NOTIFICATION IF POSSIBLE BUT
MIGHT NOT ALWAYS BE POSSIBLE.
>> WE COULD INCORPORATE KNOWN
AGENDA SITE PLAN PETITIONS INTO
THAT SECTION OF THE AGENDA AND
MAYBE RETITLE IT TO PUBLIC
HEARINGS AND UPCOMING UPCOMING
SITE PLANS FOR FOR FOR PLANNING
AND ACTION WITH THE CAVEAT THAT
THEY MIGHT BE ALSO PULLED
BECAUSE SOMETIMES CONDITIONER'S
ASK US TO PULL THINGS AND THAT
GIVES THEM MORE FLEXIBILITY TOO
BECAUSE WITH THE PUBLIC HEARING
WE HAVE TO HOLD IF WE NOTICE IT
AND THEY MIGHT NOT ALWAYS WANT
THAT AND SOMETIMES THAT HAPPENS
AND THEN WE JUST HAVE TO TELL
YOU HEY, THIS IS ON YOUR AGENDA
BUT PRETTY PLEASE JUST POSTPONE
IT, POSTPONE IT AND THEN THE
PETITION IS ALWAYS NERVOUS.
>> ARE THEY ACTUALLY GOING TO
POSTPONE IT?
I DON'T KNOW PROBABLY ABOUT
THANK YOU.
THAT'S VERY HELPFUL.
AND THEN TO YOUR POINT I WANTED
TO NOTE THAT WE ONLY HAVE TWO
REGULAR MEETINGS SCHEDULED IN
OUR NORMAL COURSE OF A MONTH
AND SO THE TIMING MAY MISS SO
JUST WANT TO MAKE SURE THAT'S
IN THERE.
I SAW COMMISSIONER MILLS'
ABRAM'S IN NORDON BECAUSE I'M
TALKING ABOUT PUBLIC NOTICE FOR
THESE THINGS LIKE A PUBLIC
PARTICIPATION I SHOULD SAY.
THAT'S A BETTER WORD.
I WANT TO REFRESH MY MIND IN
CASE YOU GUYS ARE ALSO NOT 100
.
>> THIS IS JUST CHECKING MY
MEMORY WHAT WE HAVE ALREADY
PASSED THAT HAS GONE ON TO CITY
COUNCIL IN RESPONSE TO THE MEMO
WAS THAT THE PUBLIC OR THE POST
CARDS THE KIND OF WHO GETS A
POST CARD AND WHEN FOR WHAT
KIND OF PROJECTS HAS BEEN
MINIMIZED TYPE ONE AND TYPE TWO
WERE ADJUSTED AND THE LANGUAGE
OR TYPE ONE WAS CHANGED TO ONLY
APPLIED TO THOSE ITEMS WHICH
REQUIRE A PUBLIC HEARING AND SO
THAT IS LEFT UP TO BASICALLY
THE PARAMETERS OF STATE
STATUTES.
>> I READ IT RIGHT THE THING
THAT WE TALKED ABOUT BECAUSE I
DON'T WANT TO LOSE THIS BUT WE
HAVEN'T VOTED ON YET THE BIG
BILLBOARD NOT BILLBOARD BUT
LARGE SIGN TO BE POSTED.
WE HAVEN'T TAKEN I DIDN'T MISS
A MEETING THAT WILL BE
DISCUSSED AT THE NEXT ORDINANCE
REVISIONS SUBCOMMITTEE MEETING
WHICH IS ON SEVEN TWENTY TWO.
>> OH AWESOME BECAUSE
PRELIMINARY PRELIMINARY BECAUSE
OH GOD WHAT WE HAD TALKED ABOUT
BEFORE WAS THAT MAY HAVE THE
ABILITY BY POINTING INTERESTED
PASSER BY NOT JUST THOSE WITHIN
THE STATE MANDATED THREE
HUNDRED FEET BUT ANY INTERESTED
PASSER BY TO TRACK THAT
PARTICULAR PROPOSAL THAT THEY
CARE ABOUT ONLINE SO THAT WHERE
YOU ARE KEEPING TRACK OF WHERE
ALL OF THESE YOU KNOW LIKE
WHERE IT IS IN THE DEVELOPMENT
PROCESS.
>> YEAH.
YES.
OK, SO I WANT TO MAKE SURE THAT
LIKE WELL FOR THAT WE'RE ALL ON
THE SAME PAGE AND ANY LISTENERS
ALSO KIND OF ON THE SAME PAGE
SO BE IT TOWARDS YOUR QUESTION
,COMMISSIONER HAMMERSCHMIDT
ARE KIND OF LIKE WHAT YOU WERE
MAKING ME THINK ABOUT IS I
THINK ULTIMATELY THERE WILL BE
MORE EYES IF WE'RE ABLE TO GET
THE BIG SIGN BEING PASSED MORE
EYES AND KIND OF WHERE THIS
PROJECT IS IN THE PROCESS AND
MAYBE MORE INTEREST BECAUSE
THERE WILL BE SOMETHING
PHYSICALLY THERE IN THE PLACE
WHERE IT WILL BE WHICH IS NOT
CURRENTLY NOT CURRENTLY THE
CASE.
>> I MEAN IT'S A SMALL THING
THAT GETS POSTED.
YEAH, I'M YEAH THAT'S THE
THAT'S THE INTENTION AND THE
DETAILS ARE TBD BUT WE'LL START
DISCUSSING THEM ON IS THAT NEXT
NEXT WEEK.
>> NEXT WEEK TUNE IN ON TUESDAY
TO YEAH IF YOU IF YOU HAVE DONE
THAT THIS THIS PROPOSED MOTION
MEMORIALIZES UH PUTTING IN
PUBLIC COMMENT PERIOD FOR A
SITE PLANS WHICH ARE PENDING
THE OUTCOME OF THAT VOTE MAY NO
LONGER REQUIRE PUBLIC HEARINGS
BUT THAT DOESN'T MEAN WE CAN'T
IMPLEMENTED IN PRACTICE.
THIS IS A FORM THIS IS A
FORMALIZATION OF SOMETHING THAT
UM IS A INTENTION COUNCIL IS
YOU KNOW, STAFF WOULD ALL LIKE
TO DO AND WE CAN ADD THIS TO
THE AGENDA EVEN IF YOU'RE STILL
PENDING A REVIEW OF RED LINE
BYLAWS, WE CAN START DOING THIS
AFTER THE TWENTY FIRST IF WE'RE
THE RESULT IS THAT WE HAVE
CHANGED THOSE TYPE ONE AND TYPE
TWO NOTIFICATIONS.
THIS IS THE REAL QUESTION LIKE
THAT WAS CHECKING MY MEMORY BUT
THIS CHANGE DOESN'T SAY WHEN
THOSE PUBLIC COMMENTS FOR THE
SITE PLANS HAPPEN LIKE THERE'S
STILL I FEEL LIKE MAYBE ONCE
UPON A TIME WHEN WE WERE
INITIALLY DISCUSSING THIS THERE
WOULD BE YOU KNOW, THE SECTION
WHERE YOU TALK ABOUT ANY PUBLIC
PROVIDE ANY PUBLIC COMMENT FOR
ANY OF THOSE
PARTICULAR KIND
OF THINGS WE PUT THIS DOESN'T
TALK ABOUT THE FORMAT OF THAT
DURING THE MEETING OR LIKE
WHERE IN THE MEETING BECAUSE I
DO THINK IT MAKES SENSE TO HAVE
THE PUBLIC COMMENT WHEN WE'RE
TALKING ABOUT THE PUBLIC THAT
MAKES THAT THAT'S CLEAR TO ME
THIS DOESN'T STOP THAT BUT IT
ALSO DOESN'T FORCE US TO DO IT
THAT WAY.
>> IS THAT RIGHT?
UM, NO.
BUT IF YOU WANT TO, UH, MODIFY
THE MOTION TO ENSURE THAT
FLEXIBILITY, THEN I GUESS I
WOULD JUST WANT DIRECTION
BECAUSE WE WERE THINKING
REPLACE THE PUBLIC HEARING
PERIOD WITH PUBLIC COMMENT AT
THE TIME THAT WE'RE TALKING
ABOUT.
>> I FEEL EXACTLY THE SAME
EXCEPT THERE WOULD NOT BE THE
THE NEWS THE KIND OF ONEROUS
NEWSPAPER TIMELINE AND
CALENDARING THAT CAN EAT UP A
MONTH OF SCHEDULING THAT'S
PERSONALLY WHAT I'M MORE IN
FAVOR OF .
IT'S JUST NOW THAT WE HAVE
PUBLIC COMMENT AT THE BEGINNING
PUBLIC COMMENT FOR SOME THINGS
PUBLIC HEARINGS FOR LIKE I I'M
JUST THINKING ABOUT OUR
LANGUAGE AND TRYING TO NOT
CONFUSE PEOPLE WHO ARE HERE ALL
THE TIME.
SO I'M THAT I'M COOL WITH THAT
.
>> THE CHAIR WOULD JUST SAY
THIS IS A PUBLIC COMMENT PERIOD
FOR THE SITE INSTEAD OF SAYING
THIS IS NOW A PUBLIC HEARING
AND THEN IT WOULD JUST BE
CONDUCTED THE SAME WAY AND WHEN
WE TAKE UP THIS MOTION WE CAN
JUST MODIFY TO DO THAT ABRAM'S
AND THEN JUST QUICKLY BECAUSE I
KNOW I ALREADY SPOKE UM MAYBE
ONE THING I JUST WANT TO REMIND
US IS THAT THIS NOTE THIS
FRIDAY RELEASE OF THE AGENDA IS
ALSO IN OUR BYLAWS AND I
BELIEVE MR. LENAR MENTIONED HAD
A PREVIOUS MEETING.
>> IT'S SOMETHING WE COULD
CONSIDER CHANGING SO IT'S NOT A
HARD AND FAST RULE.
>> THE BYLAWS SAY TO THE EXTENT
PRACTICABLE THE AGENDA WILL BE
AVAILABLE BLAH BLAH THE FRIDAY
PRECEDING.
>> SO IF I THINK WE HAVE THEN
THIS COULD BE SOMETHING WE DO
IN THE NEAR FUTURE.
BUT IF WE WANTED TO TRY TO MOVE
THAT TO A WEEK BEFORE OUR
MEETING OR UP A COUPLE OF DAYS
WE COULD THINK ABOUT THAT TO
COMMISSIONER IN ORDER TO THINGS
.
I THINK IF WE'RE GOING TO DO
THIS AS A MATTER OF PRACTICE I
WOULD I DON'T KNOW THAT THIS
NEED TO BE WRITTEN IN THE
BYLAWS BUT I'M LOOKING AT THE
CHAIR OF THE NEW CHAIR.
YOU WOULD PROBABLY WANT TO
START THE GENERAL COMMENT
PERIOD AND NOTE THAT IF YOU
HAVE COMMENTS ON THE UPCOMING
SITE PLAN APPROVAL, WAIT TILL
THEN IF WE'RE GOING TO GO THERE
BECAUSE I THINK PEOPLE WILL
STILL BE CONFUSED ABOUT WHAT AM
I SUPPOSED TO TALK ABOUT WHAT I
ALSO WANT TO REMIND FOLKS SO
THAT AS WELL AS THE NOTICING
PROBLEM, ONE OF THE BIG REASONS
TO NOT HAVE PUBLIC HEARINGS IN
FRONT OF SITE PLANS OR
APPROVALS IS BECAUSE THEY'RE
JUST THEIR ADMINISTRATIVE
DECISIONS AND WE HAVE LITTLE
DISCRETION TO DENY THEM IF THE
PETITIONER THE PROPONENT HAS
SATISFIED ALL OF THE
REQUIREMENTS AND WHEN YOU'RE
DOING SPECIAL PUBLIC COMMENT
PERIODS FOR DECISION THAT YOU
REALLY CAN'T ENGAGE WITH THE
PUBLIC COMMENTS, YOU'RE
CREATING AN EXPECTATION ON THE
PART OF PEOPLE THAT WE CAN
CHANGE OUR MIND OR WE CAN ADD
NEW THINGS BECAUSE WE'RE
HEARING PUBLIC COMMENT.
THERE'S A RISK HERE TO WE'VE
SOLVED THE PUBLIC NOTICING
PROBLEM BUT WE'RE MAINTAINING
THE PROBLEM OF GIVING PEOPLE A
FALSE IMPRESSION THAT THERE'S
ANY DISCRETION LEFT HERE.
SO THAT WOULD BE THE REASON TO
NOT HAVE A SITE PLAN SPECIFIC
COMMENT PERIOD AND JUST SAY IF
YOU HAVE COMMENTS ON THE SITE
PLAN YOU'RE FREE TO DO THAT
DURING THE PUBLIC COMMENT
PERIOD.
BUT NO, IT'S AN ADMINISTRATOR'S
DECISION.
SO I'M ACTUALLY NOT INCLINED TO
WANT TO DO PUBLIC COMMENTS IN
FRONT OF THE SITE PLAN APPROVAL
FOR THAT REASON BECAUSE I THINK
WE'RE GOING TO BE SETTING
PEOPLE UP TO BE MAD AT US WHEN
THEY MAKE PUBLIC COMMENTS AND
THEN WE SAY YEAH, BUT WE HAVE
TO APPROVE IT BECAUSE THEY'VE
SATISFIED ALL OF THE
REQUIREMENTS FOR A SITE PLAN
APPROVAL.
SO JUST TO MONKEY THINGS UP A
BIT, I'M GOING TO PUT THAT ON
THE TABLE.
ARE THERE OTHER COMMENTS I
WOULD ENTERTAIN A MOTION
I MOVE
THAT THE BYLAW CHANGES BE
DRAFTED AND REFERRED TO THE TO
THE ATTORNEY FOR REVIEW TO ADD
PUBLIC COMMENT PERIODS FOR SITE
PLANS WHICH MAY NO LONGER
REQUIRE PUBLIC HEARINGS SO
MOVED DO WE HAVE A SECOND
SECONDED BY COMMISSIONER EXCUSE
ME COUNCIL MEMBER TISH AND
ADAMS BUT I FAVOR MY LOVE
DISCUSSION ON THE MOTION
COMMISSIONER QUESTION DOESN'T
REALLY RESOLVE THIS LAST ISSUE
WE WERE JUST TALKING ABOUT
WHICH IS DOES THAT MEAN JUST
GENERAL COMMENTS AT THE START
OF THE MEETING OR A SITE PLAN
APPROVAL SPECIFIC COMMENTARY?
I CAN REVISE THE MOTION FAMILY
MEMBER PUBLIC COMMENT PERIODS
FOR SITE PLANS WHEN THEY'RE
BEING DISCUSSED.
>> I DON'T KNOW HOW YOU WANT TO
HOW THE WORD THAT
COMMISSIONER'S INTENTION.
>> YEAH, HOW ABOUT THE LANGUAGE
DESIGNATED PUBLIC COMMENT
PERIOD ATTACHED TO REVIEW OF A
SITE PLAN BUT DESIGNATED PUBLIC
COMMENT PERIOD WOULD BE ONE WAY
OF MARKING THAT UP FROM GENERAL
PUBLIC COMMENT PERIOD AGREED
THAT IT RUNS INTO THE SAME
PROBLEMS THAT WE HAVE HAD WHEN
PEOPLE COME FOR A PUBLIC
HEARING AND FIND OUT THAT THEY
WE CAN'T REALLY CHANGE
ANYTHING.
BUT I THINK WHEN WHEN WE'RE
TRYING TO WE'RE TRYING TO DO A
REALLY DELICATE DANCE BETWEEN
NOT SHUTTING DOWN OR GIVING THE
APPEARANCE OF THIS YOU KNOW,
CREATING A BELIEF THAT WE DON'T
CARE ABOUT PUBLIC PARTICIPATION
.
AND SO WHEN COUNSEL ENTERTAINED
THIS RECOMMENDATION FROM THE
ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT REPORT,
THE IDEA WAS THAT WE WANTED IT
TO BE A DESIGNATED PUBLIC
COMMENT PERIOD ATTACHED TO THE
SITE IN DISCUSSION AT PLANNING
COMMISSION.
WE DIDN'T WANT JUST AT THE
BEGINNING BECAUSE THEN BECAUSE
THE IDEA IS THAT THE GENERAL
PUBLIC COMMENT PERIOD CAN GO
ALL OVER THE PLACE SOMETIMES
IT'S VERY FOCUSED BUT THEY CAN
BASICALLY BRING UP ANYTHING BUT
THESE DESIGNATED PUBLIC COMMENT
PERIODS WOULD LET PEOPLE BUILD
ON EACH OTHER AND KIND
OF DELIBERATE ABOUT A PROJECT
AND LEARN THINGS AND SOMETIMES
WE DO LEARN THINGS THAT MAYBE
WE CAN STILL ADDRESS EVEN
THOUGH THE PROJECT IS GOING TO
GO THROUGH THERE IS STILL
SOMETHING VALUABLE.
>> THERE CAN BE SOMETHING
VALUABLE ABOUT THE PERSON WHO
SAYS BUT THERE'S THIS DRIVEWAY
OR I DON'T KNOW WHAT IT IS BUT
WE THERE ISN'T ZERO LEARNING
AND SO THAT IT THIS IS WHAT
COUNCIL HAD IN MIND AND WAS
HOPING THAT YOU WOULD OFFER US
AND THE IDEA THAT WE WOULD
ALIGN AND BARBAROUS REGULATIONS
MORE CLOSELY WITH THE STATES
WHICH IS TO IN FACT PROVIDE
FEWER PUBLIC HEARINGS THAN ANN
ARBOR HAD USED TO DO THE IDEA
THAT WE WOULD DO THAT AND THEN
NOT PROVIDE ANYTHING ELSE WAS
JUST NOT SOMETHING THAT CROSSED
OUR MINDS.
THAT WAS NOT WHAT WE WERE
TRYING TO DO.
>> WE WEREN'T TRYING TO SILENCE
PEOPLE.
WE WERE TRYING TO TAKE SOME
OF THE REGULATIONS THAT WE HAD
PILED ON TO THE STATE PROCESS
THAT WERE SLOWING DOWN AND
COSTING MONEY.
WE WERE TRYING TO REMOVE THOSE
SO RIGHT.
>> COMMISSIONER, I'M ACTUALLY
QUITE OK WITH THAT.
I'M NOT OBJECTING TO HAVING
DESIGNATED PUBLIC COMMENT.
I WOULD JUST AS A MATTER I
DON'T THINK THIS NEEDS TO BE
WRITTEN INTO THE BYLAWS BUT AS
A MATTER OF PRACTICE I THINK IT
WOULD BE HELPFUL FOR THE CHAIR
TO LET FOLKS KNOW
ADMINISTRATIVE DECISIONS AND WE
HAVE LIMITED DISCRETION AND I
WOULD NOTE TOO THAT WE MAY
LEARN THINGS BUT IT COULD ALSO
BE THE CASE THAT A PROJECT
OPPONENT WILL HEAR SOMETHING
AND COMMENT THEY HADN'T THOUGHT
ABOUT BEFORE AND I'M THINKING
ABOUT A CERTAIN HOMEOWNER WHO'S
IN THE AUDIENCE RIGHT NOW WHO
GIVES US A REALLY HELPFUL
PUBLIC COMMENT ALL THE TIME AND
AND ACKNOWLEDGE THAT IT'S STILL
HELPFUL TO DO THAT EVEN IF IT'S
A NON DISCRETIONARY DECISION.
SO JUST TO SAY I'M PERFECTLY
FINE WITH THE AMENDMENT
DESIGNATED SO THAT ALIGNS WITH
THE SAME THING PROPOSED.
OK, THE ORIGINAL MOTION WAS
MADE BY COMMISSIONER ABRAMS.
IT WAS MODIFIED COMMISSIONER
ABRAMS DECLARED IT FRIENDLY.
>> IS IT FRIENDLY TO THE TABLE
?
I CAN ALSO RESTATE IT.
OK AND COMMISSIONER HAVING
COUNCIL MEMBER DISH YOU'RE GOOD
WITH THE AMENDMENT BECAUSE I
THINK YOU SECONDED IT.
OK, GREAT MANAGER KELLY DO YOU
LIKE TO MOVE TO A VOTE?
>> I WOULD I WOULD LIKE TO DO A
VOICE VOTE.
>> UM OK.
SO UH A MOTION BYLAW CHANGES BE
DRAFTED AND REFERRED TO CITY
ATTORNEY FOR REVIEW TO A
DESIGNATED PUBLIC COMMENT
PERIODS ATTACHED TO THE REVIEW
OF SITE PLANS WHICH MAY NO
LONGER REQUIRE PUBLIC HEARINGS.
>> YES, ALL THOSE IN FAVOR I
ANY OPPOSE.
GREAT.
LET'S MOVE ON TO OUR WORK
PROGRAM.
I WOULD ENTERTAIN A MOTION TO
ACCEPT OUR WORK PROGRAM AS
PROPOSED MOVE BY COMMISSIONER
WHETHER IT BE SECONDED BY
COMMISSIONER MILLS.
WE'RE IN DISCUSSION SEEING NO
DISCUSSION.
ARE WE READY TO VOTE?
>> I'D LIKE TO DO A VOICE VOTE
.
>> SURE.
ON THE MOTION THAT THE ATTACHED
WORK PROGRAM FOR FISCAL YEAR
TWENTY TWENTY SIX BE ADOPTED.
>> YES.
ALL THOSE IN FAVOR VOTE I ANY
OPPOSE IT IS APPROVED.
THAT CONCLUDES YOUR
ORGANIZATIONAL ITEMS AS I HAVE
THEM IN A STAFF REPORT.
>> IF THERE IS ANYTHING ELSE
YOU'D LIKE TO UH THAT I HAVEN'T
INCLUDED PLEASE LET ME KNOW AND
I'M AVAILABLE.
>> SURE THE ONLY THING I WOULD
LIKE TO ASK FOR IS ALONG THE
LINES OF WHAT COMMISSIONER
NORTON HAS BEEN HINTING AT
TONIGHT WHICH IS I THINK AND
I'M HAPPY TO PUT SOMETHING
TOGETHER LIKE A PRE MEETING
POINT I THINK IS THE WAY THAT I
DESCRIBED IT THAT SORT OF HELPS
ORIENT THE PUBLIC TO
WHAT WE'RE
GOING TO DO TONIGHT.
SO IF THERE IS A SITE PLAN THAT
WE WOULD SAY THIS IS AN
ADMINISTRATIVE SITE PLAN, THERE
WILL BE PUBLIC COMMENT OR IF
THERE'S A WAY FOR US TO WORK IT
INTO THE WRITTEN AGENDA SO THAT
PEOPLE PICK IT UP, THEY CAN SEE
THAT I THINK JUST MORE
INFORMATION THAT WE CAN SHARE
BECAUSE THE ONE THING THAT HAS
BEEN CONSISTENT THROUGHOUT THE
PLAN PROCESS IS A LOT OF PEOPLE
ARE UNFAMILIAR WITH THE PROCESS
OF HOW THESE DECISIONS GET MADE
AND SO BECAUSE THEY'RE
UNFAMILIAR YOU'RE IT FEELS
EXCLUSIONARY JUST BY ITS NATURE
.
SO WHEN PEOPLE CAN'T TALK BACK
THEY'RE LIKE WELL YOU'RE NOT
LISTENING AND IT'S LIKE WELL
THE MEETING IS NOT DESIGNED AS
AN EXCHANGE OFTEN WE'RE HAVING
EMOTIONAL CONVERSATIONS BUT
WE'RE ACTUALLY THERE ARE BY
RIGHT DEVELOPMENTS.
>> AND SO IT'S LIKE EVERYTHING
YOU'RE SAYING IS VALID AND YET
THIS PERSON CAN STILL BUILD IT
AND THAT ISN'T THE WAY THAT
NORMAL FOR A LOT OF PEOPLE
THEIR LIVES WORK SO IT FEELS
DISJOINTED.
SO IF THERE ARE WAYS THAT WE
CAN IMPROVE OUR COMMUNICATION
TO THE PUBLIC AND I DON'T KNOW
IF THAT IS THROUGH OUR BYLAWS
LIKE WE ADOPT A LET'S IMPROVE
OUR COMMUNICATION TO THE PUBLIC
BYLAW OR IF THAT GETS PUT INTO
OUR WORK PLAN AND WE WORK WITH
A SPECIALIST THAT THE CITY MAY
ALREADY HAVE JUST TO HELP US.
I'M THINKING OF LIKE THE
IMPROVEMENT TO HOW YOU GET TO
INFORMATION THROUGH THE ENGAGE
WEBSITE THAT HAS BEEN HUGE.
IT'S SO EASY NOW TO REFER
PEOPLE THERE AND TO HELP THEM
UNDERSTAND AND WALKS THROUGH
HERE'S WHAT'S HAPPENING.
HERE'S HOW IT'S GOING TO IMPACT
YOU AND HERE'S THE NEXT STEP
YOU COULD DO SOMETHING LIKE
THAT IN A THREE STAGE I THINK
WOULD BE FANTASTIC.
SO THOSE ARE MY THOUGHTS ABOUT
THAT.
ANYONE ELSE BEFORE WE MOVE ON
TO THE SECOND DRAFT OF THE PLAN
?
GREAT.
SO NOW WE WILL MOVE ON TO
AGENDA ITEM ELEVEN B REVIEW THE
COMPREHENSIVE PLAN SECOND DRAFT
AND WE WILL START WITH A STAFF
PRESENTATION BY PLANNER BENNETT
WHO LIKES TO BE REFERRED TO AS
MICHELLE DURING THESE SECTIONS
OF OUR MEETING.
>> GOOD EVENING COMMISSIONERS.
>> UM, MY PRESENTATION THIS
EVENING IS IN YOUR PACKETS IF
JUST TO ORIENT US BECAUSE IT'S
BEEN TWO WEEKS SINCE WE MET TO
DISCUSS THE DRAFT COMPREHENSIVE
LAND USE PLAN WE HAD GONE
THROUGH A SERIES OF EDITS THAT
STAFF HAD ORGANIZED INTO LARGER
DISCUSSION TOPICS, STAFF EDITS
AND FACTUAL EDITS.
WE ARE STILL IN THE DISCUSSION
SECTION OF THAT.
WE PLAN TO SPEND MOST OF OUR
TIME HERE UNLESS ANY OF YOU
HAVE GONE THROUGH THE STAFF
EDITS AND WANTED TO BRING THOSE
UP FOR DISCUSSION.
>> THIS MAY BE NEW TO YOU
COMMISSIONER ADAMS.
I'M SORRY I TELL YOU I REALLY
HAVE TO ORIENT MYSELF TO MY
RIGHT.
COMMISSIONER ADAMS IS GOING TO
TALK ABOUT IT SO THAT'S OK.
I'M YIELDING TO YOU FOR A
MOTION I THINK YOU WANT TO MAKE
AND I WANT TO JUST SORT
OF ACKNOWLEDGE I'M GOING TO
MAKE THIS AS QUICK AS POSSIBLE
BECAUSE I THINK IT'S A PRETTY
STRAIGHTFORWARD I WASN'T HERE
LAST WEEK BUT I ALSO DIDN'T
HAVE MY EDIT INCORPORATED IN
THE DISCUSSION SECTION SO IT
DIDN'T GET DISCUSSED.
THERE'S A THE CURRENT IN THE
STAFF EDITS IT STATES WHICH TO
ME YEAH YEAH YEAH YEAH.
>> SO IT'S A STAFF EDIT PAGE
SIXTY IS WHAT I HAVE IN MY
NOTES UH ZERO SO BEING ON THE
LEFT SIDE SO EVERYONE POSSIBLY
ON PAGE 12 ON 12 OH THERE'S A
HUGE YEAH SORRY IT'S ON PAGE 12
OF THE PDF.
I'M SORRY CAN I PAUSE EVERYONE
FOR A SECOND.
UM PLANE OR BINIT COULD YOU
PLEASE FOR THOSE THAT ARE
WATCHING REMOTELY AS WELL AS
THOSE IN THE CHAMBER CAN YOU
PUT UP THE PAGE TWELVE FOR US
SO THAT THEY HAVE AT LEAST A
REFERENCE POINT AS COMMISSIONER
ADAMS STARTS?
>> YES, PLEASE
.
AND THEN ONCE THAT'S UP TO MR.
ADAMS BECAUSE I HAD ITS
ORIGINAL FORM I SAID SO GIVE ME
ONE SEC COMMISSIONER ADAMS,
WHAT'S BEEN IT HAS IT UP YOU
COULD RESOLVE GO OK PAGE TWELVE
.
OK
, THANK YOU.
YES.
SO IT'S THE SECOND AT THE TOP
HISTORIC DISTRICT BOUNDARIES
WILL BE MAINTAINED I I
UNDERSTOOD THIS LANGUAGE IF I'M
REMEMBERING THIS RIGHT THIS WAS
PROPOSED BY COUNCIL MEMBER DESH
TO GIVE SOME COMFORT TO FOLKS
WHO THOUGHT WE WERE GOING AFTER
HISTORIC DISTRICTS.
WHAT I WAS HOPING TO SEE WAS
SOMETHING THAT WAS LIKE NEUTRAL
OR AGNOSTIC ON THE ISSUE
COMPLETELY SAYING THAT'S A
SEPARATE THING WE HAVEN'T
TOUCHED WE HAVE NO DESIRE TO
TOUCH IT.
WE'RE NOT TAKING A POSITION ONE
WAY OR THE OTHER.
MY CONCERN IS THAT THIS
LANGUAGE ESPECIALLY WITH THE
CHANGE FROM WILL THE SHOULD
EXPRESS WHAT SORT OF READS OR
COULD BE READ AS A POLICY
JUDGMENT BY US AND THE PLAN
THAT THESE THINGS NEED TO BE
PRESERVED AND I HAVE MY OWN
PERSONAL VIEWS ON IT.
BUT AT THE END OF THE DAY I
THOUGHT MY POINT OF VIEW ON IT
WAS WE'RE NOT TAKING IT.
WE HAVE NOT TAKEN ANY EVIDENCE
ON IT.
WE CAN'T INFLUENCE IT.
I DON'T I DON'T THINK THE PLAN
SHOULD TAKE A POSITION ON IT
ONE WAY OR THE OTHER BECAUSE
WHAT I WOULD HATE TO HAVE
HAPPEN IS IF IN FIVE YEARS THE
LAW CHANGES AND THE JUDGMENT
CHANGES THROUGH SOME OTHER
MECHANISM, PROCESS OR DECISION,
I DON'T WANT ANYBODY COMING
BACK AND SAYING A PLANNING
COMMISSION SAID IN TWENTY
TWENTY FIVE THAT THEY SHOULD BE
MAINTAINED.
I HAVEN'T MADE THAT JUDGMENT SO
I I PROPOSED IN ORDER TO MAKE
THIS VERY NEUTRAL SAYING WE'RE
NOT SAYING ONE THING ONE WAY OR
THE OTHER.
THEY'RE THERE.
THEY'RE GOVERNED BY COMPLETELY
SEPARATE LEGAL REGIME AND WE'RE
NOT TOUCHING THEM.
THIS AS REVISED ESPECIALLY IF
IT'S A STAFF THAT IT IS GOING
TO GO FROM WILL THE SHOULD AND
I WANTED TO AT LEAST TAKE A
VOTE ON OUR POSITION ON THE
MATTER SO THAT WE'RE EITHER
GOING TO STAY NEUTRAL OR WE'RE
GOING TO SAY SOMETHING LIKE
THIS.
OK, SO WOULD YOU PLEASE MAKE A
MOTION TO SEE IF WE HAVE A
SECOND AND THEN WE COULD
DISCUSSED I WOULD MOVE THAT WE
REVISE THE LANGUAGE HISTORIC
DISTRICT BOUNDARIES WILL BE
MAINTAINED ON PAGE SIXTY TO I
THINK WHAT I SAID THEN WAS THIS
BY NEXT OUR POSITION ON
HISTORIC DISTRICTS AND THEIR
BOUNDARIES WHICH ARE GOVERNED
BY SEPARATE LEGAL STANDARDS AND
PROCESSES.
>> OK, THAT'S MOVED TO WE HAVE
A SECOND SECONDED BY
COMMISSIONER ABRAMS AND NOW WE
ARE IN DISCUSSION.
ARE THERE COMMISSIONERS WHO'D
LIKE TO DISCUSS THIS?
COMMISSIONER ABRAMS?
I JUST WANTED TO VOICE SUPPORT
AND EXCUSE ME IN MY ORIGINAL
COMMENTS I HAD SAID I HAD
PROPOSED JUST ELIMINATING THE
SENTENCE ALTOGETHER BUT I WOULD
SUPPORT THE MOTION AS AS STATED
IT GIVES I THINK IT DOES.
>> SORRY FOR JUMPING IT DOES IT
STILL GIVE US ANY EFFECT IF A
COUNCIL MEMBER NEEDS TO APPOINT
SOMEBODY TO LANGUAGE SAYING THE
LAND'S NOT DOING ANYTHING I
THINK THAT STILL DOES IT AND
THAT'S WHY I DIDN'T WANT TO
STRIKE IT BUT I DID WANT TO SAY
SOMETHING ON COMMISSIONER
HAMMERSCHMIDT.
>> DID I RAISE MY HAND OR DID
YOU JUST KNOW THAT I WANTED TO
SAY MY FAVORITE MY LIFE I ALSO
HAD A COMMENT THAT I SENT IN
ABOUT THIS SECTION WHICH LEADS
ME TO ANOTHER QUESTION I WILL
ASK AFTER THIS.
>> I ARE YOUR COMMENTS ON THIS
OK?
>> I DON'T SO I DON'T I DON'T
WANT TO SHUT THE DOOR ENTIRELY
IN ANY SORT OF CHANGE AND IF
THAT MEANS SO I WOULD AGREE ON
LIKE THE SHOULD OR THE WILL
LIKE IT DOESN'T MATTER.
I DON'T THINK THAT THAT I WOULD
ALSO BE FINE WITH STRIKING IT
OR AMENDING IT.
CAN I ASK MY OTHER THING NOW OR
I WOULD SAY NO LET'S LET'S WAIT
JUST SO THAT WE CAN STAY CLEAN
ON THIS BECAUSE THIS IS A IT'S
A CLEAR MOTION AND YOU COULD
MAKE A FRIENDLY A MOTION WOULD
YOU LIKE TO MAKE AN AMENDMENT?
NO.
OK, RIGHT NOW OTHER
COMMISSIONERS COMMISSIONER
WETHERBEE SO I THINK MY PROBLEM
I AGREE WITH A LOT OF THAT BUT
MY PROBLEM IS IS THAT OUR
HISTORIC DISTRICTS EXIST AND
THEY ARE A BIG DEAL.
>> I MEAN THEY HAVE A LOT
OF HOUSES AND IT'S SOMETHING
THAT PEOPLE FEEL STRONGLY
ABOUT.
>> SO MAKING IT NEUTRAL
ACTUALLY KIND OF I THINK WILL
DIMINISH IT FOR A LOT OF PEOPLE
AND I'M NOT SURE I THINK WHILE
WE MAY SEE IT AS THAT COMMENT
IS NEUTRAL, I THINK IT IT'S NOT
A NEUTRAL PRESENCE.
IT'S LIKE THE UNIVERSITY IT'S
NOT A NEUTRAL PRESENCE IN OUR
COMMUNITY AND I THINK MAKING I
DON'T KNOW WHAT THE RIGHT
WORDING IS BUT I'M NOT YOU'RE
MAKING IT NEUTRAL IS I THINK
THAT'S UNDERSTATING I THINK WE
HAVE TO, UM SAY WE HAVE THE
UNIVERSITY WE HAVE THESE
HISTORIC DISTRICTS THAT LIMIT
BUILDING IN OTHER PLACES AND
THAT THOSE DO AFFECT HOW WE'RE
GOING TO LOOK AT OTHER
DISTRICTS AND KIND
OF I JUST
FEEL LIKE THAT IT MAKES IT TO
NEUTRAL AND THAT THAT IT IT
DOESN'T MAKE THE CASE FOR OTHER
POSITIONS WE'VE TAKEN OR I
DON'T KNOW IT JUST FEELS A
LITTLE TOO I'VE LOOKED AT OTHER
CITIES AND YOU KNOW, THEY
REALLY HIT THEIR HISTORIC
DISTRICTS HARD IN THEIR
COMPREHENSIVE PLANS AND TALK A
LOT ABOUT THEM AND I THINK
WE'VE ALREADY
KIND
OF NEUTRALIZED OURS IN SOME
WAYS AND WE DON'T TALK ABOUT
THEM THAT MUCH.
AND I THINK IF WE IF WE
CONTINUE TO SORT OF HAVE
NEUTRAL LANGUAGE, I THINK KIND
OF OBFUSCATES PEOPLE'S
UNDERSTANDING OF WHAT IT MEANS
AND I THINK WE HAVE TO KIND
OF FACE LIKE OK, THIS IF WE'RE
GOING TO KEEP THESE THEN THAT
MEANS SOMETHING TO GET OTHER
COMMISSIONERS PLAN.
>> ARE GOING TO SORRY PLEASE
REPEAT THE MOTION.
SURE.
STRONG LIKE STORM DISTRICT
BOUNDARIES WILL BE MAINTAINED
WHICH IS THE CURRENT LANGUAGE
ON PAGE SIXTY AND REPLACED WITH
THIS PLAN TAKES NO POSITION ON
HISTORIC DISTRICTS AND THEIR
BOUNDARIES WHICH ARE GOVERNED
BY SEPARATE LEGAL STANDARDS AND
PROCESSES UNTIL YOU'LL THEN
CONTINUE THAT SENTENCE AND
DEVELOPMENT WILL CONTINUE TO
ADHERE TO THE EXISTING
STANDARDS AND DESIGN GUIDELINES
APPROVED BY THE D.C. RIGHT.
>> I WAS ONLY GOING TO STRIKE
THE HISTORIC DISTRICT
BOUNDARIES WILL BE MAINTAINED.
>> I THINK THAT'S THE ONLY
LANGUAGE I'M CUTTING BACK ANY
OTHER DISCUSSION ARE WE READY
TO VOTE?
>> LET'S DO A ROLL CALL VOTE.
>> UM, COMMISSIONER OR WISCH?
YES, JUST ONE SECOND HERE.
>> NOT NORMALLY AT THIS PART
OF THE MEETING THOUGH.
YES.
>> OK, UH, COMMISSIONER
HAMMERSCHMIDT NO OK.
ABRAM'S YES.
>> DISH NO MILLS' YES.
>> OK WETHERBEE NO.
ALL RIGHT.
ATOM'S YES.
AND NORTEN YES.
>> YES.
SO I'M COUNTING FOUR I'M SORRY
FIVE YESES THAT'S CORRECT.
>> WHICH SO IT HAS TO CARRY.
>> THANK YOU COMMISSIONER ADAMS
UM BACK TO YOU PLAINER THAN IT
.
>> OK, UM SO I WAS JUST
STARTING BY TRYING TO ORIENT
EVERYONE INTO HOW THIS IS
ORGANIZED AND WHERE WE HAD LEFT
OFF ON JULY 1ST.
>> SO WHERE WE LEFT OFF WAS
UNDER THE DISCUSSION SECTION UM
AND WE HAD GOTTEN TO UM LET'S
SEE HERE WE HAD GOTTEN TO THE
FUTURE LAND USE MAP AND THAT'S
WHERE WE HAD DECIDED TO PAUSE.
SO I SUPPOSE I WANT TO BRING
THIS UP AND HOW WE'D LIKE TO
RUN THE REST OF THIS MEETING.
UM, COUNCIL HAS SHARED WITH US
THAT THEY ARE GOING TO BE
PASSING A RESOLUTION THAT WILL
BE MAKING SOME CHANGES.
>> I THINK THAT WOULD IMPACT
OUR CURRENT FRAMEWORK.
UM AND SO I WOULD OFFER THAT WE
COULD CONTINUE TO GO THROUGH IF
YOU RECALL WE HAD ABOUT
EIGHTEEN 16 TO 18 SITES TO GO
THROUGH UM IN WHICH THIS WAS
BROUGHT TO OUR ATTENTION FROM
PLANNING COMMISSION TO STAFF
THAT THERE WERE AREAS WHERE THE
CITY WHERE THE FUTURE LAND USE
MAP HAS DOWN ZONED AND SO WE
ARE GOING TO DISCUSS THESE
PURSELL OR AREA BY AREA AND
THEN AFTER THAT THERE ARE STILL
SOME MORE COMMENTS TO GO
THROUGH.
SO THIS WOULD BE OUR FIRST STEP
AND THEN WE HAVE A FEW MORE
KIND OF FUTURE LAND USE MAP AND
GOAL DISCUSSION TOPICS SO WE
COULD THERE'S A FEW OPTIONS I
THINK WE COULD WAIT TO SEE WHAT
THE RESOLUTION IS AND BY DOING
THAT WE MIGHT NEED TO CALL A
SPECIAL MEETING AT THE END
OF JANUARY WE COULD PROCEED
SORRY JULY JULY UM WE COULD
CONTINUE WITH OUR CURRENT
FRAMEWORK AND HAVE KIND
OF LARGER SCALE CONVERSATIONS
ABOUT THIS MAYBE WORK STILL
THROUGH SOME LAND USE TOPIC UM
OR IF PEOPLE HAVE GONE THROUGH
THE STAFF SECTION AS WE JUST
DID AND FELT LIKE THEY WANTED
TO RAISE THOSE INSTEAD WE COULD
JUMP TO THAT AND MAYBE WAIT FOR
THIS DISCUSSION UNTIL THE END
OF JULY OR AUGUST.
THOSE ARE SOME OF THE OPTIONS I
HAVE THOUGHT OF .
I WILL PROCEED HOWEVER YOU ALL
FEEL IS BEST.
>> SO CAN I CLARIFY AT THE
TABLE I NEED TO CLARIFY WITH
THE COMMISSIONERS IT WAS MY
UNDERSTANDING THAT WE HAD
GENERAL AGREEMENT THAT WE
WOULDN'T GO DOWN ZONE EXCUSE ME
DOWN ZONE ANYTHING IN THE LAND
IN THE NEW LAND USE MAP AS A
OVERALL PRINCIPLE.
WE DIDN'T WANT TO DOWN ZONE
SOMETHING THAT WAS THAT HAD A
HIGHER DENSITY PERMISSION
CURRENTLY.
>> WHAT'S THAT.
>> OK, SURE THAT'S A GOOD
QUALIFIER AND EVERYONE I'M NOT
GOING TO CALL ON YOU TO JUST UH
LET'S HAVE HOT MIKES FOR THIS
PART SO THAT YOU CAN SPEAK
CLEARLY AND QUICKLY.
UM, SO I'M AFFIRMING THAT WE
HAD A DISCUSSION THAT WE DID
NOT WANT TO DOWN ZONE ANYTHING
THAT WAS ALREADY HIGHER DENSITY
PERMITTED.
SO LIKE IF THE NEW PLAN COMES
IN IT DOESN'T TAKE SOMETHING
THAT IS A MULTIFAMILY AND THEN
RESTRICT WITH THE NEW ZONING
THE BURDEN OF PROOF THE RULES
THAT WE HAD TALKED ABOUT WHEN
WE WERE GOING THROUGH THE LOGIC
OF THE MAP WERE ROUGHLY STATED
I THINK BY ME AS WE CAN DOWN
ZONE WITH A GOOD REASON
OTHERWISE WE OUGHT TO JUST RUN
THE RUN.
THERE ARE THREE OR FOUR TO
TRANSITION INTO TRANSITION AND
EVERYTHING ELSE.
YEAH RIGHT OK YEAH GO AHEAD.
I WOULD JUST OFFER THAT I AFTER
CAREFULLY LOOKING AT ALL
SIXTEEN OF THESE AREAS I THINK
THAT ACTUALLY THERE ARE SOME
INCONSISTENCIES SO THERE ARE
SOME AREAS WHICH ARE THREE WITH
A DENSITY THE CURRENT DENSITY
DENSITY WOULD BE ALLOWABLE IN
RESIDENTIAL YOU DON'T NEED TO
GO TO TRANSITION TO DO TOWN
HOMES THAT ARE THREE STORIES
HIGH.
SO I THINK THERE ARE SOME AREAS
THAT ARE CURRENTLY ZONED OUT
THREE THAT WOULD BE APPROPRIATE
TO LEAVE IN RESIDENTIAL AND
THERE ARE SOME THAT MIGHT BE
APPROPRIATE TO MOVE TO
TRANSITION.
>> SO THAT WOULD I SO I GUESS
FOR ME IT'S HARD TO JUST DO A
BLANKET ALL OR THREE AND AH FOR
ALL OUR THREE GO TO TRANSITION
TO A ZONE WHERE MAYBE THERE'S
SOME DISCRETION.
>> I'M NOT TO BE CLEAR I'M NOT
ASKING US TO APPROVE A ZONING
CHANGE.
I'M ASKING ABOUT THE PRINCIPLE
SO THAT BECAUSE IF THE
PRINCIPLE IS IN PLACE THEN THE
FOR ME IT WOULD SHIFT WHAT
STAFF PRESENT IT TO US BECAUSE
THEN STAFF WOULD LOOK AT IT
WITH THE GOAL OF NOT DOWN
ZONING ANYTHING AND THEN WHAT
WE TALK ABOUT ARE CONFLICT
PLACES.
SO EXACTLY WHAT YOU JUST
BROUGHT UP.
SO WHERE THERE'S ALREADY
AGREEMENT THAT THIS DENSITY IS
APPROPRIATE HERE IT MOVES
AUTOMATICALLY AND THEN IN A
PLACE WHERE IT'S R R THREE AND
WE WOULD HAVE PUT IT IN
TRANSITION BUT IT'S ALSO
PERMISSIBLE IN LOW RISE THAT'S
BROUGHT TO US TO SAY HERE'S OUR
PRINCIPAL AND D SO WE WOULD
MOVE FROM EIGHTEEN TO I IMAGINE
SIX THAT WE WOULD ACTUALLY HAVE
TO LOOK AT AND SAY THESE SIX
ARE CONFLICT POINTS.
HOW DO WE WANT TO ADJUST THE
MAP.
>> SO IF I COULD INTERJECT SO I
THINK IN GENERAL THAT IS
CORRECT AND THAT'S A GOOD
METHOD AS COMMISSIONER APRON'S
BROUGHT UP WE WILL HAVE TO LOOK
AT SOME OF THEM BECAUSE
CURRENTLY RESIDENTIAL WOULD
ALLOW FOR SOME OF THESE THINGS
THAT ARE UM BUT THAT THAT
PRESUPPOSES THAT COUNCIL
DOESN'T CHANGE IT AND BECAUSE
IF I ALSO CHANGES IT STILL DOES
CAPTA TO TRY PLEX THEN IT WOULD
THEN A LOT MORE THINGS ON HERE
ARE GOING TO SHIFT TO DIFFERENT
AREAS EXCEPT THE LANGUAGE ISN'T
A CAP EX EXACTLY.
>> YEAH THE LANGUAGE IS THAT
ESSENTIALLY ARE UP TO OUR THREE
IS BY RIGHT.
I KNOW THIS LANGUAGE IS
IMPRECISE BUT UP TO OUR EXCUSE
ME UP TO MULTIPLE TIMES
OF SORRY I'M REALLY REALLY
TIRED IN A WEIRD WAY.
>> YEAH.
SO UP TO SORBI RIGHT AND HIGHER
DENSITIES ARE NOT NOT NOT
PROHIBITED BUT YOU HAVE TO
CONSIDER SO IF YOU HAD YOU KNOW
SO THAT MEANS THAT IF YOU HAD
OUR FOR YOU MIGHT ALLOW HIGHER
DENSITY IN A PLACE THAT USED TO
BE THAT HAD ONCE BEEN OUR AND
HAD THAT STYLE OF BUILDING AND
YOU WOULD SAY OH YEAH MORE THAN
A TRIPLEX IS FINE HERE.
>> THAT'S WHAT'S AROUND HERE.
>> YEAH.
SO THE REASON I BRING THIS UP
IS JUST IN LIGHT OF WHEN WE
WERE WORKING ON THE FIRST DRAFT
AND YOU ALL WANTED TO WAIT TO
WORK ON THE IMPLEMENTATION IN
FRONT OF YOU I SEE THIS AS A
SOMEWHAT SIMILAR SITUATION
OF THAT YOU DON'T HAVE THE
LANGUAGE IN FRONT OF YOU SO WE
COULD PROCEED WELL LIKE WE
MENTIONED BOIL IT DOWN TO THOSE
FEW AREAS.
>> I THINK ABSENT THE ACTUAL
MEMO WE CAN'T UNFORTUNATELY I
APPRECIATE THE HEADS UP BUT WE
DON'T HAVE IT IN FRONT OF US SO
I DON'T THINK IT'S FAIR IS NOT
THE RIGHT WORD.
I DON'T THINK IT'S PRUDENT.
I WAS GETTING THERE I DON'T
THINK IT'S PRUDENT TO HAVE THAT
BE THE LIMITING FACTOR OF THE
DISCUSSION FOR TONIGHT.
I THINK WHEN WE HAVE IT I THINK
WE ADDRESS IT BECAUSE IT STILL
HAS TO PASS THE COUNCIL TABLE
AND COME BACK TO US AND THAT IT
MAY NOT END.
SO IF IT DOESN'T
THEN YOU KNOW
WE WOULD BE WAITING THAT WAY.
IT MAY IT MAY NOT.
SO COMMISSIONER GORDON SORRY
YOU COULD JUST SPEAK FREELY.
>> I DIDN'T WANT YOU TO HAVE TO
CUT ANYBODY OFF.
I WANT TO JUST POINT OUT AGAIN
THAT WE'RE TALKING AS IF THIS
IS A ZONING MAP AND THAT'S
EXACTLY AND WE SHOULD NOT BE
DOING THAT.
ZONING IS JUST ONE OF THE
FACTORS OF A BUNCH OF FACTORS
THAT WENT INTO THESE DIFFERENT
LINE CLASSIFICATIONS AND THAT'S
PART OF THE REASON I I SEE
POSITIVE SIGNS.
YOUR NEIGHBORHOOD IS BEING
ZONED WELL NO IT'S NOT.
THIS IS A PLAN WITH FUTURE LAND
USE MAPS.
IT'S NOT A STRICTLY ZONING
CODE SO WE SHOULD BE A LITTLE
BIT MORE PRECISE IN HOW WE'RE
THINKING ABOUT WHAT WE'RE DOING
HERE SO IT'S NOT REALLY PRECISE
TO SAY THIS FUTURE LAND USE MAP
IS DOWN ZONING THINGS.
IT'S CALLING FOR LESS DENSITY
MAY BE CALLING FOR A CHANGE IN
ZONING THAT WOULD BE
INCOMPATIBLE WITH WHAT WE'RE
TRYING TO DO, WHICH IS THIS IS
MORE REALISTIC AND CLUNKY.
>> BUT I WANT TO BE A BIT MORE
PRECISE IN WHAT WE'RE DOING.
HAVING SAID THAT, I UNDERSTOOD
THERE WAS A KIND OF A PROTOCOL
THE STAFF IN THE PLANNING
CONSULTANTS USED TO GET TO THE
FUTURE LAND USE MAP AND ALL
OF THESE FACTORS AND ONE OF ONE
OF THE GOOD WAYS TO GET TO
FAIRNESS AND EQUITY IS TO APPLY
A STANDARD SET OF RULES TO
EVERYBODY.
BUT THEN YOU CAN GET SITE
SPECIFIC CONDITIONS WHERE IT'S
NOT FAIR.
SO THEN THE SECOND WAY YOU GET
TO FAIRNESS IS LOOK AT THE SITE
SPECIFIC CONDITIONS AND SEE IF
THERE'S A MITIGATING
CIRCUMSTANCE OR SO ABSENT AND
ABRAMS OR ABSENT A GOOD REASON
TO DO SOMETHING ELSE WE SHOULD
FOLLOW THE PROTOCOL.
>> ALL OF WHICH IS TO SAY IT
SEEMS TO ME WE OUGHT TO LOOK AT
THESE AREAS THAT HAVE BEEN
IDENTIFIED IF IN FACT THERE'S
SOMETHING GOING ON HERE THAT
SUGGESTS JUST APPLYING THE
BLANKET RULE IS GOING TO CREATE
SOME PROBLEM.
>> WHAT I'M STILL NOT QUITE
SURE ON IS THAT COUNCIL WAITING
UNTIL WE GET THE MEMO FROM THE
CITY COUNCIL OR CAN WE PROCEED
WITH ALL OF THESE NOW YOU CAN
PROCEED I THINK WE CAN PROCEED
BUT THERE MAY BE SOME
ADJUSTMENT IF YOU LOOK BACK AND
I WAS LISTENING FOR THINGS AS
COUNCIL MEMBER JUST READ OFF
THE LIST.
I WAS LISTENING TO THINGS THAT
WOULD CAUSE A PROBLEM TONIGHT
AND I FEEL LIKE WE CAN STILL
PROCEED AND NOT HAVE TO WRAP UP
THE WORK I AGREE MIGHT HAVE TO
MAKE SOME CHANGES BUT YEAH OK.
>> SO I WOULD LIKE TO UM LEAD
IN TO COMMISSIONER NORTON'S
LAST COMMENT AROUND LANGUAGE
WHICH WAS GOING TO BE ECHOED BY
COMMISSIONER HAMMERSCHMIDT
AROUND TIND THAT THIS IS THIS
IS NOT THE ZONING SO AS WE
CONTINUE OUR CONVERSATION IF
YOU COULD JUST LEAN INTO A
LITTLE MORE PRECISE LANGUAGE
THERE SO THAT WE'RE NOT
CONFLATING THINGS BECAUSE I
THINK THAT ALSO CONFUSES THE
PUBLIC SO THAT THEY BELIEVE YOU
KNOW, WE UNDERSTAND WHAT WE'RE
DOING BUT AND THEY HEAR IT
DIFFERENTLY AND THEN IT FEELS
LIKE IT'S A BAIT AND SWITCH
KIND OF CONVERSATION AND IT
ALSO CONFUSES ME SO LIKE WHEN I
WAS ALSO GOING TO SAY BESIDES
THE DEDEAUX THAT I KEEP GETTING
QUOTED AS TO SAYING IN RESPONSE
TO COMMISSIONER NORTON'S
COMMENTS LAND LIKE LAND USE AND
ZONING, I WOULD IMAGINE THAT WE
HAVE AREAS OF THE CITY THAT ARE
ZONED ARE THREE BUT OPERATE
MORE LIKE IN OUR ONE.
I MEAN I DON'T KNOW THIS FOR
SURE.
SO LIKE I I'M MORE INTERESTED
IN MAKING SURE THAT FUTURE LAND
USE DOESN'T DO SOMETHING
TOTALLY CRAZY TO YOU.
IT'S NOT LIKE TAKING A
CURRENTLY LIKE OUR ONE SINGLE
FAMILY NEIGHBORHOOD AND ALL
OF A SUDDEN IT BECOMES A HUB
LIKE I JUST WANT TO BE REALLY
CLEAR AS TO WHAT OUR RECIPE IS,
WHETHER THAT'S LIKE USING
ZONING AS A STARTING POINT AND
THEN DIGGING INTO THE ACTUAL
LAND USE THAT EXISTS IN THOSE
PLACES BECAUSE THOSE MIGHT NOT
ALWAYS MATCH AND THEN MAKING
SURE THAT THE FUTURE LAND USE
MAP I REALLY DON'T LIKE THE FLU
ACRONYM THAT I'M SAYING THAT
THAT MAP MAKES SENSE IN THE
CONTEXT OF THAT AREA OF THE
CITY.
>> YES.
SO THAT'S A GOOD REMINDER THE
METHODOLOGY FOR HOW THE FUTURE
LAND USE MAP WAS DERIVED IS ON
PAGE ONE TEN SO WE CAN CONTINUE
TO REFER BACK TO THAT ACTUALLY
ONE TEN AND UM FURTHER DOWN
HERE THIS KIND OF BOX ON ONE
TWELVE IT TRIES TO SHOW THE
RELATIONSHIP BETWEEN CURRENT
ZONING AND FUTURE LAND USE
ZONING OR FUTURE LAND USE AND
LAND USE CATEGORIES AND CURRENT
ZONING SO WE CAN REFER BACK TO
THIS TO SEE IF WE'RE FOLLOWING
THIS RATIONALE AS WE GO OR IF
THIS NEEDS TO AT ALL BE
MODIFIED.
SO WITH THAT I CAN TAKE US TO
OUR FIRST, UH, CIRCLE ON THIS
MAP.
I WILL BRING UP HERE THE
POWERPOINT.
I TOOK SOME NOTES ON ALL
OF THESE THAT I THINK ARE
VISIBLE BUT SO WE CAN HAVE A
COMPARISON HERE ON THE LEFT IS
THE CURRENT ZONING BOOK.
THIS IS NOT SHOWING UP HERE.
LET ME SHARE THIS.
>> SO PLANNER MICHELLE JUST
VERIFYING ARE WE STILL GOING TO
GO THROUGH ALL EIGHTEEN OR FROM
YOUR INTIMATE KNOWLEDGE OF THE
MAP YOU CAN HIGHLIGHT JUST
WHERE THOSE CONFLICT AREAS MAY
BE END OF THESE CONFLICTS THE
LIKE.
>> OH MY THERE'S THE CURRENT
ZONING VERSUS FUTURE ZONING OR
ARE WE ALSO LOOKING AT LAND
USE?
SO ON FUTURE LAND USE ON THE
LEFT THIS IS THE CURRENT ZONING
RIGHT AND ON THE RIGHT IS
WHAT'S THE PROPOSED LAND USES.
AH AND SO THE EXERCISE IS TO
LOOK THROUGH THESE AND SEE IF
WE FEEL LIKE THE PROPOSED
FUTURE LAND USE NEEDS TO BE
CHANGED GIVEN ON OUR DISCUSSION
AND CERTAIN CAVEATS TO
DIFFERENT AREAS OF THE CITY, I
WOULD LIKE TO SAY THAT I COULD
JUST TELL YOU THE TOP SIX RIGHT
NOW BUT I THINK WE COULD
POSSIBLY GO THROUGH THEM
QUICKLY AND FIGURE THAT OUT.
>> OKAY, WELL WE CAN WE DO I'M
SORRY.
>> GO AHEAD, COMMISSIONER.
WELL, I JUST BASED ON YOUR
PROPOSAL AT THE BEGINNING
OF THIS CONVERSATION, I WAS
HOPING THAT WE ACTUALLY COULD
NOT TALK ABOUT ANYTHING LIKE
OUR THREE SEEMS TO BE THE ONLY
ONE THAT COULD GO EITHER WAY.
OUR FOUR WOULD GO TO TRANSITION
UNLESS SOMEBODY WANTED TO PUT
IT ON THE TABLE AS A SPECIAL
CASE TO DISCUSS GOING TO
RESIDENTIAL.
>> OTHERWISE LET'S NOT SEE.
AND THEN SO LET'S JUST ASSUME
RIGHT NOW THAT EVEN IF IT
CURRENTLY SHOWS OUR FOUR
DESIGNATED FUTURE LAND USE
RESIDENTIAL THAT THAT WILL BE
CHANGED TO TRANSITION UNLESS WE
DISCUSS OTHERWISE HERE.
>> IS THAT OK?
CLEAR I AGREE.
IS THAT AGREED UPON AND THEN R
THREE IS THE ONE THAT REALLY
CAN TOGGLE EITHER WAY AND WE
SHOULD DISCUSS BECAUSE WE'RE
NOT WE'RE NOT GOING TO MOVE OUR
ONE HOUR TO THE HUB SO THAT'S
OFF THE TABLE.
IT'S REALLY TRANSITION OR
TRANSITION SO THAT THAT IT'S
REALLY ARE THREE SO THEN THEN
WE CAN BREEZE THROUGH THESE
LIKE FOR EXAMPLE THIS VERY
FIRST ONE DOESN'T HAVE OR ARE
THREE ON HERE SO I CAN SKIP IT
IF I'M UNDERSTANDING THIS
EXERCISE QUICKSTEP WHY WAIT IF
YOU JUST WANTS TO UNLESS
SOMEBODY WANTS TO PUT IT ON THE
TABLE TO DISCUSS AS BEING AN
EXCEPTION WHAT WAS THE LANGUAGE
THAT MR. ADAMS USED SOME GOOD
REASON TO DO SOMETHING
DIFFERENT?
>> I THINK IN THIS CASE IT'S R
FOR B THAT IS MOVING TO
TRANSITION EXCEPT IT'S TINY.
IT IS TINY BUT IT'S TINY AND
IT'S ON A PARK AND IT'S
SURROUNDED BY AH ONE OF VARIOUS
DENSITIES THAT I DON'T KNOW WHY
THAT'S TRANSITION.
THAT ISN'T THAT IS MY CONFUSION
I GUESS HERE ON LIKE LIKE ARE
ALL OF THESE CIRCLES JUST
ZONING TO FUTURE LAND USE
CONFLICTS?
>> ARE WE LOOKING AT IT LIKE A
LAND USE TO FUTURE LAND USE
CONFLICT?
>> I THINK IT'S JUST ZONING TO
FUTURE LAND USE CONFLICTS.
I THINK IT'S I I'M NOT SURE
BECAUSE IN THIS CASE WHY
WOULDN'T THE HALF HOUR AGO WELL
EXACTLY.
>> IT'S NOT IN THE LAND RIGHT
NOW.
WHAT I'M TRYING TO SAY IS THE
NEW ASSUMPTION IS THAT IT WILL
YES.
UNLESS WE DISCUSS OTHERWISE I
NEW ASSUMPTION IS THAT ANYTHING
ON HERE CURRENTLY DESIGNATED
ARE FOR RIGHT.
AND THE REASON THAT IT WAS
CIRCLED IS BECAUSE IT'S R FOR A
AND IT'S IN THAT'S WHY IT'S
RESIDENTIAL THAT'S WHY IT WAS
CALLED TO OUR ATTENTION.
>> YEAH THE COMMISSIONER IS
SAYING BUT WHY WOULD WE MOVE IT
TO TRANSITION.
>> IT'S LIKE WE SO THAT'S WHY
THERE'S MORE CONTEXT THAN
WHAT'S THE CURRENT ZONING.
SO IT'S I LOOKED AT SOME THINGS
YOU MIGHT ALSO WANT TO CONSIDER
ARE NATURAL FEATURES THE WIDTH
OF THE RIGHT AWAY WHAT'S
SURROUNDING IT?
IS IT ON THE PERIPHERY OF THE
CITY?
DO WE WANT HEIGHTS THAT COULD
POTENTIALLY GO UP TO 80 FEET IN
THIS PART OF THE CITY SO AND
THEN WE GOT INTO THE
CONVERSATION OF APPLYING A TICK
ONE STYLE ACCORDING TO THE
RESIDENTIAL WHICH WOULD THEN BE
SELF ADJUSTING SO THAT WE DON'T
IMMEDIATELY GO FROM ONE TO
EIGHTY BUT IT WOULD STEP UP
FROM OUR ONE TO FIFTY FIVE AND
THEN STEP INTO THE NEXT PIECE.
>> I JUST CANNOT SIT HERE AND
SAY THAT I THINK TRANSITION
WHICH I DON'T KNOW WHAT ITS
PARAMETERS ARE.
SO THAT IS ONE THING LIKE I
DON'T EVEN KNOW WHAT WE'RE
TALKING ABOUT DIMENSIONAL
STANDARDS I YEAH I DON'T KNOW
WHAT THE HEIGHTS ARE IN ALL
OF THAT.
RIGHT SO THIS ABUTS A PARK.
>> IT COMES OFF A TWO LANE ROAD
THAT IS ALREADY HYPER
TRAFFICKED AND IT IS LESS THAN
A MILE FROM AN INTERSECTION
THAT LITERALLY GOT AN F IN THE
LOWER TOWN TRAFFIC STUDY AND
THERE'S NOTHING WE CAN DO TO
IMPROVE IT
THE BURTON AND
PONTIAC INTERSECTION AND SO TO
PUT ON TOP OF THE DENSITY THAT
IS ALREADY BEEN ADDED HERE IN
THE LAST FOUR YEARS TO PUT THIS
IN A CATEGORY THAT INVITES
GREATER HEIGHT THAN THE THE
CURVE AND THEN THE BUILDINGS
THAT CURRENT DENSITY THAT HAVE
ACHIEVED CURRENT DENSITY THIS
IS GOING TO BE PEOPLE ARE GOING
TO BE LIKE WHAT ARE YOU
THINKING AND KNOWING THIS AREA
AND I KNOW IT'S IN YOUR WARD
EVEN THE TRANSITION PIECE FEELS
STRANGE TO LEELEE I MEAN
BECAUSE ALSO A DVORIN DAVOREN
IS UNSAFE.
THERE ARE NOT SIDEWALKS AND
THERE ARE GUARDRAILS SO YOU'D
HAVE TO WALK ON TOP OF THE
GODWILL TO NOT BE WALKING IN
THE WAY.
>> I MEAN THOSE SOUND LIKE
THINGS THAT THE CITY SHOULD
TAKE LIKE EITHER THE SIPI I'M
I'M HEARING YOU I THINK I'M
HEARING YOU VERY CLEARLY.
>> I'M TRYING TO LIMIT OUR
SCOPE FOR WHAT WE CAN
ACCOMPLISH BECAUSE IT'S ALREADY
ZONED FOR OTHERWISE WE'RE
MAKING A NEW DEVELOPMENT WITH A
NEW DEVELOPMENT.
>> THERE'S GOING TO BE
NONCONFORMING EXACTLY WHICH
WHICH I'M CONCERNED ABOUT THE
CREATION OF NOT NEW
NON-CONVERTIBLE.
>> WE WERE MADE TO LIMIT
RESIDENTIAL THREE STOREY I KNOW
THIS IS THIS IS GOING TO HAVE
TO CREATE NONCONFORMING AGAIN.
THE FUTURE WILL BE NOT BUT
IT'LL BE GOOD.
>> IT'LL BE OUT OF WHACK.
SO THAT TECHNICAL TERM HERE'S
HERE'S SOME THINGS THAT I
RECALL FROM THIS IS AND AGAIN
IS CAN CHANGE BUT I THINK THIS
TRANSITION IS AN INTERSECTION
WHERE THEY FEEL LIKE THERE'S
POTENTIAL TO BE A WILL BECAUSE
THERE IS VERY LITTLE UP HERE IN
THIS AREA IN TERMS
OF COMMERCIAL USES FOR THOSE
RESIDENTS IN THAT RESIDENTIAL
AREA.
SO WE PRIMARILY THINK
OF TRANSITION CORRIDORS, RIGHT.
THAT'S THE MAJORITY OF WHAT IT
IS OR SURROUNDING BUT IT COULD
ALSO BE USED AND I THINK IN
THIS SENSE IT'S VERY DIFFERENT
THAN THE OTHER TRANSITIONS BUT
IT'S SORT OF USED AS A NODE FOR
A POTENTIAL TO CREATE SOME SORT
OF COMMERCIAL ACTIVITY IN THAT
PART OF THE CITY IF WE'RE ARE
GOING TO INCREASE DENSITY
THERE.
>> BUT WE ALREADY HAVE WE ALLOW
NEIGHBORHOOD COMMERCIAL.
WE ALLOW IT IN OUR RESIDENTIAL
CURRENTLY AND IF I MEAN AND
THERE'S NO GUARANTEE THAT
COMMERCIAL WILL COME THERE,
THERE'S BEEN TALK ABOUT IT AND
THERE'S ABILITY FOR IT TO COME
NOW.
BUT PUT IT AT TRANSITION AND
HAVE THE FOLKS WHO LIVE THERE
WHERE THERE HAVE BEEN HUNDREDS
OF UNITS ADDED WITH I HOPE VERY
MUCH I VERY MUCH HOPE THAT THAT
YOU KNOW, DEVELOPMENT GOES
THROUGH THE ONE THAT WE AND
VILLAGE OF ANN ARBOR AND OUR
PRIVILEGES WHATEVER I CAN NEVER
GET THEM STRAIGHT.
I HOPE THAT COMES THROUGH.
THERE IS THERE HAS BEEN THE
CREATION OF A LOT OF HOUSING
OPPORTUNITY UP THERE AND TO PUT
TRANSITION HERE WHERE THERE'S
NO GUARANTEE THAT THAT BRINGS
COMMERCIAL I MEAN PEOPLE DO
WANT COMMERCIAL THERE BUT IT
WOULD BE PERMISSIBLE IN
RESIDENTIAL.
IT ALLOWS FOR THE POSSIBILITY
OF EVEN GREATER HEIGHT IN A
PLACE WHERE THERE ARE TRANSIT
LIMITATIONS.
YOU KNOW ALL OF THAT THOSE
FOLKS ARE GOING TO BE THEY ARE
GOING TO THAT WILL INFURIATE
THEM BECAUSE THEY'VE SEEN
ABSOLUTE NO INFRASTRUCTURE
IMPROVEMENTS THAT IMPROVE
WALKABILITY AND THEY KNOW
NOTHING WILL HAPPEN TO THE
BODY.
THE PONTIAC BERTEN
INTERSECTION.
>> NOTHING CAN SO CAN I.
I'M SORRY BUT I'M GOING TO GO
TO COMMISSIONER MILLS AND THEN
I WANT TO PROPOSE A PROCESS A
QUESTION JUST SO THAT WE
BECAUSE IF WE DO THIS FOR ALL
18, WE ARE NOT GOING TO LEAVE
THIS TABLE BEFORE MIDNIGHT
TONIGHT.
BUT I I I DEFINITELY WANT TO
HEAR FROM COMMISSIONER MILLS
WHAT I WANT TO MAKE SURE THAT
I'M UNDERSTANDING THE DEBATE
ABOUT THIS IS TWO DIFFERENT
THINGS SOME PEOPLE ARE THINKING
THAT THE YELLOW SHOULD BE
BIGGER, THERE SHOULD BE MORE
TRANSITION.
THIS IS WHAT I'M HEARING.
RIGHT.
BUT THE RULE WOULD SUGGEST THAT
MUCH OF WHAT IS GRAY I DON'T
KNOW ON THE RIGHT HAND SHOULD
BE TRANSITION BECAUSE IT'S
ALREADY GREATER THAN WHAT WE'RE
ANTICIPATING FOR LOW DENSITY
LIKE FOR RESIDENTIAL.
>> BUT I'M ALSO HEARING WHAT
I'M NOT QUITE SURE THAT I'M
HEARING COMMISSIONER, IS ARE
YOU SUGGESTING NOT HAVING ANY
YELLOW AT ALL HERE?
>> NO TRANSITION AT ALL OR NO
TRANSITION OR NOT THAT
EXPANSION OF THE TRANSITION I
JUST DON'T UNDERSTAND WHAT THE
DEBATE IS ABOUT.
>> I DON'T THINK WELL, I DON'T
THINK TRANSITION IS APPROPRIATE
FOR HERE ANYWHERE.
>> SO LIKE GETTING RID OF ALL
OF THE YELLOW GOING TO
RESIDENCE, IT'S NOT A BIG IT'S
NOT A BIG YELLOW WELL I MEAN
IT'S IT'S A LITTLE ISLAND
OF YELLOW.
>> YEAH.
THAT ABUTS A PARK IN THE AREA
WHERE THERE'S BEEN LOTS OF I
MEAN DENSITY ADDED AND WHERE
THERE IS VERY LIMITED ABILITY
TO AMELIORATE THE TRAFFIC
ISSUES AND THE SPEEDING AND
THIS IS ON THE STREET THAT
LEADS TO A SCHOOL AND YOU KNOW,
I'M JUST SAYING THIS IS WHAT I
HEAR FROM THESE KIDS.
YOU I HAVE NO IDEA HOW TO
COMMISSIONER WETHERBEE AND THEN
I WANT TO TRY A PROCESS
QUESTION.
>> YEAH.
SO ONE OF THE THINGS SO I GREW
UP IN THIS PART OF TOWN AND
NONE OF THIS WAS HERE AND SO
EVERY THING OF SAYING WE
SHOULDN'T DO MORE WAS THE SAME
THAT PEOPLE SAID THIRTY YEARS
AGO.
AND SO I HAVE A REACTION
OF LIKE WELL IF I MEAN HAVING A
BUILDING ON A PARK SOUNDS
LOVELY ACTUALLY WITH A LITTLE
AMENITY BELOW AND THAT DOESN'T
TO ME LIMIT IT.
SO I THINK MAYBE THIS IS PART
OF THE PROCESS QUESTION IS IF
WE'RE GOING TO I THINK WE NEED
TO DO THIS NOT IN A COUNCIL
PERSON DISH YOU ACTUALLY HAVE
TO BECAUSE YOU'VE BEEN ELECTED
BY CONSTITUENTS BUT I DON'T
KNOW THAT THAT IS HELPFUL FOR
OUR GROUP TO DISCUSS THINGS
LIKE TRAFFIC AND AS A WHOLE
BECAUSE THE HOPE IS THAT OR THE
UNDERSTANDING IS THAT THERE
WILL BE INFRASTRUCTURE AND
THERE WILL BE IF WE'RE GOING TO
MOVE FORWARD FOR SOME OF THIS.
SO I DON'T KNOW WHERE THAT
WHERE THOSE LIMITS ARE OF OF
WHEN WE ADVOCATE FOR A
PARTICULAR SPOT OR WHEN WE ARE
ADVOCATING FOR A LAND PLAN AND
MAYBE THAT'S YEAH.
>> I'LL LET THE COMMISSIONER
RESPOND TO YOU KNOW, I JUST
WANT TO BE CLEAR I AM NOT
TRYING PONTIAC TRAIL IS NOT
SCHEDULED FOR ANY
INFRASTRUCTURE UPGRADES.
THEY'VE DONE WHAT THEY CAN DO.
DAVOREN MIGHT GET SOME WORK ON
IT BUT IT TOO IS VERY LIMITED
IN TERMS OF WEATHER.
YOU DEFINITELY CAN'T HAVE BIKE
LANES ON BOTH SIDES.
>> THERE IS THE INTERSECTION
THAT IS A HALF A MILE OR THREE
QUARTERS OF A MILE FROM THIS
INTERSECTION WHERE YOU WOULD BE
BRINGING ADDITIONAL PEOPLE WHO
WOULD DRIVE BECAUSE THE BUS
SERVICE AT THIS PART OF TOWN IS
NOT GREAT.
I MEAN MAYBE THAT WILL IMPROVE.
IT DOESN'T HELP THAT PEOPLE RUN
SHUTTLES BUT ANYWAY THAT
INTERSECTION WILL NOT IMPROVE
FOR BERTEN PONTIAC INTERSECTION
IS FROZEN UNLESS THE CITY
WISHES TO USE EMINENT DOMAIN
WHICH IS WHICH IT HAS INDICATED
THAT IT WON'T.
AND SO THIS IS AN AREA THAT HAS
AN ENORMOUS AMOUNT OF COMMUTER
TRAFFIC BECAUSE OF YEAH, SO I
MEAN I'M JUST SAYING THAT WE I
DON'T SEE HOW WE CAN I MEAN IF
TRANSITION IS SUPPOSED TO BE
ABOUT WALKABILITY AND ABOUT
MIXED USE, I GET THE DESIRE FOR
MIXED USE.
BUT RESIDENTIAL ALLOWS THAT IF
IT'S SUPPOSED TO BE ABOUT
WALKABILITY AND WE'RE SUPPOSED
TO BE LOOKING AT PLACES THAT
EITHER HAVE IMPROVEMENTS TO
BIKE LANES AND SIDEWALKS OR ARE
SCHEDULED FOR THEM, THIS IS NOT
IT.
THIS IS A PLACE THAT IS CALLED
OUT IN CITY REPORTS THE
LOWERTOWN TRAFFIC STUDY FROM A
YEAR AND A HALF AGO AS A REALLY
TROUBLED AND PROBLEMATIC AND
UNSOLVABLE PLACE SO SO SHOULD
WE BE LOOKING AT ALL OF THE
PROBLEM WITH THAT IS THAT WE'RE
NOT GOING TO KNOW THAT FOR ALL
SIXTEEN WHICH IS WHICH IS NOT
OUR PURVIEW AND A LOT OF WAYS
WE WE GET TO COMMENT AT THE
WHICH WILL HAVE I THINK A
MEETING WITH CALEB BEFORE
CAYLUS MATERNITY LEAVE AND SO
WE CAN START TO IDENTIFY SOME
OF THESE THINGS.
BUT I WAS GOING TO PROPOSE THAT
ON THESE PLACES WHERE WE'RE
HAVING CONFLICT THAT
COMMISSIONER EITHER MAKES A
MOTION TO EITHER STRIKE THE MAP
THE WAY THAT IT IS AND THEN IF
THERE'S A SECOND THEN WE VOTE
ON IT AND THEN WE CAN MOVE ON
SO THAT WE'RE BECAUSE I DON'T
THINK WE'RE ALL GOING TO BE
ABLE TO BRING THE LEVEL
OF DETAIL THAT COMMISSIONER
DISH IS BRINGING TO THIS AREA.
I THINK IT'S APPROPRIATE FOR
YOU TO RAISE IT AT THE TABLE.
I AM HAPPY TO HEAR IT AND FOR
US TO DEBATE IT AND I THINK WE
ALSO HAVE SIXTEEN OTHER AREAS
THAT ARE IDENTIFIED IN YOUR
POWERPOINT.
SO COMMISSIONER, JUST WOULD YOU
LIKE TO PROPOSE STRIKING THIS
OR REZONING IT DOWN?
I'M SORRY.
I'M GOING TO HEAR A
COMMISSIONER ADAMS WHILE YOU
THINK ABOUT THAT AND THEN I'LL
COME BACK TO YOU.
>> THE OTHER THING I'D SAY TO
COUNCILMAN MODISH LIKE IF THERE
ARE AREAS THAT YOU VIEW IS JUST
TOO POLITICALLY SENSITIVE, IF
IT'S JUST GOING TO END UP ON A
COUNCIL DIRECTIONLESS, THEN I
DON'T WANT TO BURN A BUNCH
OF TIME TONIGHT TURNING ON IT.
I'D RATHER
JUST MOVE TO THE
AREAS THAT WE CAN ACTUALLY MOVE
FORWARD ON SUBSTANTIVELY AND
YOU KNOW, LIKE IF THIS ONE
FEELS TOO HOT LET'S JUST MOVE
ON FROM IT BECAUSE IT'S SO
TINY.
>> I MEAN WHY WOULD WE INFLAME
THIS?
RIGHT.
WELL, I HAVE A I HAVE AN ANSWER
TO THAT WHICH IS THEN THAT THE
PROCESS OF GOING THIS WILL
BREAK OUR EQUITY BECAUSE WE ARE
GOING TO THEN GO NEIGHBORHOOD
BY NEIGHBORHOOD AND THE FOR ME
WE'RE LOOKING AHEAD FIFTY YEARS
I'M THIS THE PROXIMATE NATURE
OF THE THINGS THAT YOU HAVE
RAISED ARE LOOKING INSIDE WHERE
WE ARE RIGHT NOW.
IT DOESN'T IMAGI A TEN FIFTEEN
TWENTY FIVE YEAR SORT OF LOOK
AND SO THAT'S WHAT I AM
THINKING THROUGH LIKE
PERSONALLY BECAUSE WHEN THE
ROBINSON BROTHERS CAME INTO MY
NEIGHBORHOOD THERE AT THE END
OF MY BLOCK ON CYO CHURCH IT'S
A TOWNSHIP ILHAN THE COMP PLAN
AND TWO THOUSAND NINE IMAGINED
IT DIFFERENTLY THAN WHAT IS
COMING IN NOW.
AND I THINK THOSE SEVENTY FIVE
THREE STOREY TOWNHOMES AT THE
END OF SILO CHURCH ARE GOING TO
BE FANTASTIC.
THEY'RE GOING TO BRING
FAMILIES.
THEY'RE GOING TO BE IN A
FIFTEEN MINUTE NEIGHBORHOOD
BECAUSE THEY HAVE THE GROCERY
STORE, THEY HAVE THE DRY
CLEANERS, THEY HAVE A DRUG
STORE, THEY HAVE A NEIGHBORHOOD
SCHOOL AND SO I'M TRYING TO
LOOK FOR ME PERSONALLY AHEAD
TEN, FIFTEEN, TWENTY YEARS I
RECOGNIZE THAT WE HAVE NO PLANS
IN THE CITY BUT THAT DOESN'T
MEAN WE CAN'T PUT THEM IN.
I RECOGNIZE THAT THERE ARE
TRAFFIC BUT IF THE HOUSING IS
THERE MAYBE PEOPLE DON'T DRIVE
BECAUSE THEY CAN HOP ON THEIR
BIKES.
>> I HAVE PICKED UP THERE BIKE
UP THERE QUITE FREQUENTLY NOT
AS FREQUENTLY AS YOU AND SO A
LOT OF THOSE STAKES ARE LIKE
WHAT I'M IMAGINING BUT I WANT
YOU TO FEEL HEARD AT THE TABLE.
>> SO IF YOU'D LIKE TO PROPOSE
WE STRIKE THIS OR REZONE IT TO
LOW RISE RESIDENTIAL, I WOULD
ENTERTAIN MOTION AND THEN IF
YOU HAVE A SECOND WE CAN VOTE
ON IT.
>> I WOULD TAKE ADVICE FROM
STAFF BEFORE I MADE A MOTION
.
CAN YOU HOLD UP FOR US?
I MEAN I THINK THAT I WOULD
GENERALLY AGREE WITH
COMMISSIONER ADAMS IS THAT WE
NEED TO FOCUS ON THE AREAS
WHERE WE CAN MAKE CHANGE.
I THINK THAT IF YOU WANT TO
MAKE THIS MOTION THAT YOU
SHOULD SEE WHERE WHERE THE
COMMISSION STANDS.
I THINK THIS IS AN AREA THAT
CAN GO EITHER WAY.
I HONESTLY I UNDERSTAND THAT
IT'S THAT YOU HAVE A LOT
OF INFORMATION THERE THAT'S
REALLY HELPFUL TO US.
BUT IN TERMS OF USING THAT TO
MAKE A DECISION, WE DON'T HAVE
THAT LEVEL OF DETAIL FOR EVERY
SITE TO MAKE THAT DECISION.
AND SO WE THIS WOULD BE A
SLIGHTLY DIFFERENT METHODOLOGY
FOR THIS ONE SITE THAN THAN
OTHER PLACES.
>> SO I WOULD LET YOU LEAD THAT
SO THAT BEFORE COMMISSIONER
HAMMERSCHMIDT I WANT YIELD TO
YOU COUNCIL MEMBER DISH IF YOU
WANT TO OK, WELL I SORT
OF PROCESS QUESTION AND THEN A
QUESTION SPECIFIC ABOUT ONE
OF THESE NEIGHBORHOODS ARE
THESE COMMUNITIES IN THE YELLOW
BLABBY?
>> SO THERE'S THIS TRANSITION
AND I'LL JUST USE THIS AS AN
EXAMPLE SPUR ON HERE LIKE PART
OF THAT'S NOT EVEN IN THE CITY.
RIGHT.
SO YEAH.
SO IS THE CONSULTANT ASSUMING
THAT IT WILL EVENTUALLY BE LIKE
IS THIS A COMMON THING THAT I
JUST HAVEN'T NOTICED THAT
THEY'VE TAKEN TOWNSHIP PARCELS
SORT OF LIKE BLOBBED IT INTO
THEIR BLOB'S ALL OVER THE
TOWNSHIP PINELANDS HAVE BEEN
FUTURE LAND USE IN PLACE AND
FUTURE LAND USE CATEGORIES
UNDERSTANDING THAT THEY COULD
BECOME PART OF THE CITY AT SOME
POINT.
>> OK, IF SOMETHING IS DONE TO
PUDI AS THIS WHATEVER THIS
CONDO COMPLEX IS CALLED NARSI
GLEN WE'RE IN ZONING.
WHAT HAPPENS TO THE PARTIES?
DO THEY STAY WITH THEIR PARTIES
ZONING THEY WOULD MEAN DO YOU
MEAN IF WE WERE TO REZONE THIS
WHOLE AREA LOOKING INTO THE
FUTURE WHEN WE'RE DOING
REZONING THINGS LIKE DEPUTED
MAINTAIN THEIR PROPERTIES
ZONING OR DO THEY I WOULDN'T
THINK SO.
>> WHAT DO YOU HAVE?
IT'S POSSIBLE THAT THEY THAT
THEY WOULD BE THAT THE ZONING
DESIGNATION COULD CHANGE.
INTERESTING BECAUSE SO PART THE
PURPOSE OF HAVING MORE FLEXIBLE
ZONING IN GENERAL SO THAT YOU
DON'T HAVE TO DO ONE OFF
PUTTING ALL OF THE TIME.
OK, SO THEN MY LAST THING AND I
CAN MOVE ON TO HOWEVER WE MOVE
ON IS WHERE WE'RE GOING.
SO I'M JUST I KNOW NOTHING
ABOUT THIS CONDO COMPLEX.
I'M JUST LOOKING AT THE STREET
VIEW.
IT LOOKS TO ME LIKE WOULDN'T BE
SOMETHING THAT WOULD BE ALLOWED
IN FUTURE LAND USE RESIDENTIAL
RIGHT.
WHICH PART OF IT ARE YOU
LOOKING AT?
THE YELLOW BLOB?
YEAH.
THE YELLOW BLOCK THE PUDI
PORTION OF THE YELLOW BLOB TO
NOT TOUCH A PORTION OBVIOUSLY
LIKE IF WE TOOK THAT TRANSITION
AWAY IT WOULD BE IF WE ZONED TO
TRANSITION IT WOULD BE
NONCONFORMING I BELIEVE JUST
BASED ON WHAT I'M LOOKING AT
LIKE IT DOESN'T LOOK LIKE A
DUPLEX.
>> THERE'S A LOT OF LIKE YEAH I
MEAN IT WOULDN'T FIT ANY UNIT
RESTRICTIONS THAT MAY BE COMING
FROM COUNCIL SO YEAH THERE'S A
LOT OF THE SAME WOULD BE TRUE
FOR THE VILLAGE THAT ARE JUST
EXACTLY ADJACENT TO IT.
YEAH AND THOSE I THINK A FOUR
STORY THERE ARE SOME THAT ARE
FOR STORIES SO THEY WOULD
IMMEDIATELY BECOME
NONCONFORMING IF WE GOT TO
ZONING.
>> I KNOW BUT IT IS IMPACTING
WHAT WE'RE LOOKING AT IS
IMPORTANT BECAUSE I DON'T WANT
TO TAKE SOMETHING THAT HAS A
LAND USE THAT IMMEDIATELY WOULD
BECOME NONCONFORMING IF RE
ZONED.
>> YEP.
>> FREE ZONE.
FREE ZONE RIGHT.
SO I THINK FROM A PROCESS SIDE
WHAT I'D LIKE TO DO BECAUSE WE
COULD SPEND A LOT OF TIME HERE
IS GO BACK TO COMMISSIONER DISH
OR CHALTA MEMBER DISH AND ASK
WOULD YOU LIKE TO MAKE A MOTION
AND IF NOT THEN I THINK I WOULD
LIKE TO MOVE ON FROM THIS ONE
AND LEAVE THE WAY THAT IT IS
PROPOSED.
LET ME LET ME JUST HEAR FROM
COMMISSIONER JUST BEFORE I HEAR
FROM YOU GO
.
SO IT'S THIS IS JUST I FEEL
LIKE I'M IN AN IMPOSSIBLE
POSITION RIGHT NOW.
I'M SORRY.
I DON'T MEAN TO PUT YOU IN.
I KNOW I MEAN THERE'S A COUPLE
OF THINGS THAT ARE MAKING IT
IMPOSSIBLE FOR ME.
ONE OF THE THINGS THAT MAKE
THAT IS MAKING IT HARD IS THAT
I AM WORRIED ABOUT AND WE'RE
NOT ALLOWED TO SAY THIS BUT
THAT NONCONFORMING RIGHT.
>> I AM WORRIED ABOUT THE
LIMITATIONS THAT ARE NOW ON
RESIDENTIAL RESIDENTIAL WAS
MORE FLEXIBLE AND IT WOULD HAVE
BEEN ABLE TO WE WOULDN'T HAVE
HAD TO WORRY LIKE OH THIS CAN'T
BE REBUILT AND NOW WE DO.
>> ALL RIGHT.
SO THAT'S ONE THING WHERE I
FEEL LIKE I'M IN A TOUGH
POSITION AND THE OTHER THING IS
LIKE I THIS LEVEL OF DETAIL IS
WHAT EVERY COUNCIL MEMBER CAN
GIVE YOU AND IT IS WHERE PEOPLE
ARE STARTING TO COME OUT OF THE
WOODWORK LIKE WE HEARD A LOT
ABOUT RESIDENTIAL BECAUSE THAT
WAS WHAT FIRST CAUGHT THEIR
ATTENTION.
BUT NOW THEY ARE REALLY PAYING
ATTENTION TO WHAT'S GOING TO
TRANSITION AND THEY ARE WORRIED
ABOUT IT.
AND THERE ARE PLACES WHERE I
THINK WE SHOULD STAND BY
TRANSITION AND I THINK THERE
ARE PLACES WHERE WE SHOULDN'T
WHERE IT JUST DOESN'T MAKE
SENSE AND IT DOESN'T MAKE SENSE
ACCORDING TO CITY DOCUMENTS
THAT PUBLIC TRANSPORTATION HAS
HAD PUBLIC MEETINGS ON AND SO I
DON'T KNOW.
>> RIGHT.
AND I HAPPEN TO KNOW THIS ONE
BUT WE DON'T HAVE INFORMANTS.
>> SO I IF IF YOU'RE LOOKING
FOR STAFF YOU HAD MENTIONED
THIS EARLIER I THINK THIS IS
ONE AREA WHERE IT COULD BE
REMOVED BECAUSE TYPICALLY AS WE
HAVE FOR THE REST OF THIS
PLANNED TRANSITION IS TYPICALLY
MEANT TO BE ALONG CORRIDORS OR
SURROUNDING A HUB.
>> ALL RIGHT.
SO LET'S DO THIS.
CAN WE JUST HEAR FROM THREE
MORE AND THEN WE'RE GOING TO
EITHER HAVE A VOTE OR WE'RE
GOING TO MOVE ON.
SO WE'LL START WITH
COMMISSIONER NORTON ABRAMS AND
THEN MANAGER KELLY.
>> SO I WANT TO POINT OUT WE'RE
GETTING LOTS AND LOTS
OF FEEDBACK FROM FOLKS THAT
PARTICULARLY FOLKS HAVE COME
AND GIVEN ALL COMMENT THAT WE
SHOULD BE DOING THIS PLAN
NEIGHBORHOOD BY NEIGHBORHOOD
AND AND GETTING ALL THE
NEIGHBORHOODS INVOLVED AND AND
EVERY NEIGHBOR INVOLVED AND WE
SHOULD ONLY DO THINGS THAT THE
NEIGHBORS OF THE NEIGHBORHOODS
AGREE WITH AND THAT'S A RECIPE
FOR NOT CHANGING ANYTHING IN
THE CITY BECAUSE EVERY
NEIGHBORHOOD IS GOING TO SAY
NO, WE DON'T WANT IT SO WELL I
UNDERSTAND THE PULL OF THERE IS
THERE ARE A LOT OF PROBLEMS
WITH THIS IF WE DO THIS HERE
NOW, HOW ARE WE NOT GOING TO DO
THAT THROUGHOUT THE REST OF THE
CITY?
WE'VE JUST STARTED DOWN THE
ROAD OF DOING NEIGHBORHOOD BY
NEIGHBORHOOD PLANNING.
SO LET ME KEEP GOING.
SO THAT'S MAKING ME NERVOUS
THAT THAT'S HEADING IN THE
WRONG DIRECTION.
HAVING SAID THAT, I DON'T KNOW
THAT I GET THE LOGIC OF HAVING
A TRANSITION THAT'S A BUBBLE IN
THE MIDDLE OF A RESIDENTIAL
AREA I THINK I MEAN I
UNDERSTOOD THEM TO BE MORE
AROUND HUB'S OR WHERE YOU'RE
ACTUALLY TRANSITIONING.
THERE'S NO TRANSITION HERE TO
TRANSITION TO.
SO IT MAKES SENSE TO ME THAT
THAT'S NOT A GOOD PLACE FOR A
TRANSITION BUT IT'S NOT BECAUSE
I WANT TO DO A NEIGHBORHOOD
SCALE ANALYSIS AND SAY ALL
OF THE REASONS WHY IT'S A BAD
IDEA BECAUSE I THINK WE'RE
HEADING DOWN THE WRONG ROAD IF
WE THINK ABOUT IT THAT WAY I'M
MORE INCLINED TO GO WITH THE
ALGORITHM THE SET OF FACTORS
THAT WERE PUT TOGETHER TO MAKE
SOME LOGICAL SENSE OUT OF THIS
AND THEN ASK WHY WHY HAVE THE
BUBBLE HERE THAT'S NOT REALLY
TRANSITIONING TO ANYTHING.
>> THANK YOU, COMMISSIONER
NORDON.
COMMISSIONER.
UM SO I DIDN'T THINK WE WERE
HERE TO DISCUSS REMOVING
TRANSITION.
I THOUGHT WE WERE HERE TO
DISCUSS ADDING ADDITIONAL
TRANSITION WHERE CURRENTLY IT
IS ZONED OUT FOR A SO THAT
DOESN'T SEEM TO BE A LOT
OF SUPPORT FOR THAT AT THE
TABLE BUT I JUST WANTED TO BE
CLEAR ABOUT THAT.
>> RIGHT.
NO, I AGREE BUT I WANTED TO
MAKE SURE I WAS HEARING
COMMISSIONER CORRECTLY AND I
ALSO DON'T THINK THAT
TRANSITION
IT FEELS LIKE A
MISNOMER, A WAY TO ME THAT IT
ALWAYS HAS TO BE A TRANSITION
BETWEEN HUB AND SOMETHING ELSE.
IT'S DESCRIPTION ACTUALLY
DOESN'T TALK ABOUT IT BEING A
TRANSITIONAL ZONE.
IT TALKS ABOUT IT JUST BEING A
MIXED AREA, A MIXED USE AREA
WITH FLEXIBLE BLEND
OF RESIDENTIAL COMMERCIAL BULBA
SO I DO FEEL THAT WE SHOULD BE
OPERATING FROM A KIND
OF PRINCIPLE.
YES.
AS OPPOSED TO THIS VERY
SPECIFIC DISCUSSION.
>> SO I WONDER IF WE COULD MOVE
THROUGH A FEW MORE AND
ESTABLISH THAT PRINCIPLE AND
THEN MAYBE RETURN TO THIS AND
SEE IF THAT FEELS YEAH, WE CAN
DO THAT MORE LARGE MANAGER I
JUST WANTED TO TO THE POINT
OF NONCONFORMING THOSE TYPES
OF CONCERNS THE THE ACTUAL
REZONING PROCESS SHOULD BE MORE
SURGICAL AND THERE COULD BE
DECISIONS TO SKIP OVER PUTTIES.
BUT I ALSO WANTED TO BRING UP
THAT WE DID MODIFY THE PUDI
MODIFICATION PROCESS THAT WAS
APPROVED BY COUNCIL IN JUNE
THAT WOULD FOR EXAMPLE FOR
MULTI PARCEL PUTTIES ALLOW
PEOPLE TO SPLIT OFF AND REZONE
AND IN THOSE INSTANCES WE WOULD
WANT TO LOOK TO THE FUTURE LAND
USE MAP FOR GUIDANCE TO
UNDERSTAND WHAT IS TO DO FOR A
SORT OF ONE OFF REZONING
OF THAT KIND.
SO IT DOES IT COULD ALSO BE
GUIDANCE FOR STAFF IN A
SITUATION OF THAT NATURE AND
NOT NECESSARILY PRODUCING AN ON
CONFORMITY.
OK, NOW THAT'S A THAT'S A GREAT
QUALIFICATION.
SO COUNCIL MEMBER DISH IT
DOESN'T LOOK LIKE YOU WANT TO
MAKE A MOTION.
>> WELL, IF OUR PRINCIPLE IS WE
SHOULD MOVE ON AND LOOK AT SOME
OF THESE FIRST AND THINK MORE
HOLISTICALLY THAT'S FINE.
>> OK OR I WILL MAKE A MOTION
TO HAVE THIS REMOVED.
OK, YEAH I JUST WANT TO MAKE
SURE YOU KNOW YOU HAVE THAT
OPTION BECAUSE THIS IS HOW WE
HAVE DECIDED TO DO THIS WHICH
IS A COMMISSIONER CAN MAKE A
MOTION TO STRIKE SOMETHING AND
THEN IF THEY GET A SECOND AND
SUPPORT THEN IT STRUCK AND
WE'VE DONE THAT THROUGHOUT THIS
PROCESS.
>> SO OUR PROCESS FOR
EVALUATING THESE IS NOT TO DO A
FEW MORE AND FIGURE WITH OUR
NO.
>> THAT'S WHAT I WOULD LIKE TO
DO.
BUT WE WERE STARTING HERE AT
THE TOP.
THERE WAS LOTS OF HEAT HERE AND
SO I JUST DIDN'T WANT TO LIKE
MOVE PAST THAT WITHOUT
ACKNOWLEDGING ALL OF WHAT YOU
HAVE BEEN CONTRIBUTING TONIGHT.
SO IF YOU FEEL LIKE YOU'VE BEEN
HURT AND YOU'RE OK WITH US
GOING ON AND LOOKING AT SOME
MORE AND THEN COMING BACK, I
THINK THAT'S THAT'S GOOD.
BUT IF YOU WANT TO STAY HERE
AND HAVE US MAKE A DECISION, I
WANT TO GIVE THAT TO YOU.
ALL RIGHT, MICHEL, LEAD US FOR
YES.
>> I'M ON SLIDE TWO.
THERE IS A MIX HERE OF R-1 BE
OUR THREE AND R ONE D I THINK
YOU CAN SEE BY THE KIND
OF SHAPE OF SOME OF THESE
STONES UM LIKE AR3 THREE FOR
EXAMPLE IF WE WERE TO DO A ONE
TO ONE EXACT MATCH UM THINGS
COULD LOOK THAT'S BIZARRE AS
OUR ZONING MAP LOOKS SO I GUESS
THIS IS OPEN FOR DISCUSSION IF
YOU ARE ALL CONSIDERING LIKE
WANTING TO WANTING TO THINK
THROUGH WHAT OUR THREE SHOULD
BE IN FUTURE AND FUTURE
NOMINEES.
>> BUT YOU DOING HOT MIKE SO
ARE YOU CALLING?
>> YES.
NO I ASKED YOU ALL TO GO HOT
MIKE IN HERE IF YOU DON'T MIND
PLEASE JUMP IN HERE SO I WOULD
SAY THERE'S TWO THINGS TO
CONSIDER ON THIS ONE AT THE TOP
YOU SEE THAT ARE THREE ALONG
DAVOREN VIREN AND THEN THE
BOTTOM WHAT ARE FOUR B ALONG
LANCASHIRE?
I WOULD LIKE TO MAKE A MOTION
THAT WE LEAVE THE R THREE AS IS
CURRENTLY IN THE LAND USE MAP
DESIGNATED AS RESIDENTIAL AT
THE BOTTOM HALF YOU SEE THAT
LITTLE BLIP OF TRANSITION KIND
OF CREEPING IN FROM THE RIGHT
AND THAT THAT SHOULD EXTEND TO
INCLUDE ALL OF THAT AREA WHICH
IS TREYVAUD APARTMENTS WHICH
ARE CURRENTLY THREE STORIES AND
ZONE AFTER B AT THE MOMENT TO
BE TRANSITION IS THEIR SECOND
SECOND BY COMMISSIONER ADAMS
AND AS AN ARCHITECT IT'S REALLY
HARD THESE WORDS TO DESCRIBE.
I WISH I COULD DRAW A LINE.
I MEAN I THINK IT'S CLEAR I
WANT TO DRAW ON ON THE MAPS.
>> OK, LET'S GET DISCUSSION.
IT'S BEEN MOVED AND IT'S BEEN
SECONDED.
WE'LL START WITH COMMISSIONER
MILLS.
BUT PLEASE EVERYONE JUST UM
JUMP IN IN AN ORDERLY FASHION.
YEAH.
JUST TO CLARIFY, WE'RE
EXTENDING THE YELLOW.
>> YOU HAVE NOT THERE'S BEEN NO
PROPOSAL FOR ANYTHING IN THE
NORTHERN HALF OF THIS.
>> THAT'S WHERE OUR SOUTHERN
PART OF THIS THAT OK SO OUR SO
OUR THREE IN THE NORTHERN PART
OF THIS ROAD RESIDENT GO TO
RESIDENTIAL AND THEN THE
TRANSITION WOULD EXTEND ALL THE
WAY ACROSS TRIVAGO DEPARTMENTS
EFFECTIVELY TO THE RAILROAD
TRACKS EFFECTIVELY.
OK, AS A BOUNDARY THANK YOU FOR
LETTING ME GET THAT CLARIFIED.
DID YOU BRING THEM OVER?
I'M NOT GOING TO BE DRAWING THE
SAME I LOVE THE SMILE.
NO.
>> ALL RIGHT.
ARE WE READY TO VOTE DOWN?
>> I FOUND IT.
>> COMMISSIONER WETHERBEE, YOU
LOOKED UP SO YOU WANT TO SAY
ANYTHING?
OK, THIS IS SORRY BEN.
HELP ME HELP ME IF I IF I DON'T
HAVE THIS BUT THE MOTION IS TO
DESIGNATE THE AREA LONG TREVER
WOOD APARTMENTS TO BE
TRANSITIONED SO EXPAND THE
YELLOW AREA TO RAILROAD TRACKS
NORTHERN AREA TO REMAIN
RESIDENTIAL.
CORRECT.
OK ON THAT MOTION WISCH YES.
HAMMERSCHMIDT YES APRON'S YES
DISH YES MILLS YES.
WETHERBEE YES.
ATOM'S YES.
>> NORTON YES.
EXCELLENT.
LET'S GO TO THREE LOOK THAT ALL
RIGHT.
I'M GOING TO JUMP IN AGAIN
BECAUSE BECAUSE BECAUSE WHY NOT
RIGHT OK SO THIS IS ALL THESE
NEW VILLAS NORTH STAR WHICH ARE
FOUR STORIES OUR CREEK
APARTMENTS THREE AND A HALF
STORIES NORTH OAKS CONDOS,
THREE STORIES NORTH APARTMENTS
,FOUR STORIES.
THOSE ARE ALL ZONED OUT FOR A
OR FOR D AT THE MOMENT AND I
WOULD LIKE TO MAKE A MOTION
THAT WE DESIGNATE THOSE AS
TRANSITION ON THE FUTURE LAND
MAP SECONDED BY COMMISSIONER
ADAMS.
>> IS THERE A DISCUSSION TO BE
CLEAR AGAIN SORRY THIS IS NIXON
ROAD OK.
>> YEAH GOT IT.
AND I'LL JUST SAY I THINK IT'S
REALLY HELPFUL TO HAVE I THINK
WE CAN STOP SOME OF THE PEOPLE
COMMUTING INTO TOWN.
THEY DIDN'T HAVE TO COME ALL
THE WAY DOWN TO THE KROGER TO
HAVE THINGS THAT THEY COULD DO
ON THE EDGES OF AND IT WOULD
ALSO SERVE THOSE NEIGHBORHOODS.
>> SO THAT MAKES SENSE TO ME
PERSONALLY.
I WANT TO BRING UP A FEW POINTS
HERE JUST ABOUT TRANSITION.
SO TRANSITION IS MEANT TO BE
MULTIMODAL WALKABLE MAKES USE
RIGHT.
ALSO DENSER, TALLER.
SO I WENT AND VISITED SOME
OF THESE SITES AND THEY MAY BE
DENSER BECAUSE THERE ARE FOUR
BUT YOU CAN LOOK AT THEIR
STREET STRUCTURE, RIGHT?
THEY'RE NOT A GRID.
THERE'S RIGHT NOT MUCH ROOM FOR
COMMERCIAL.
SO WHILE I AGREE WITHIN OUR
FRAMEWORK IT PROBABLY FITS
BETTER THERE.
>> UM, SOME OF THESE WERE BUILT
TO BE DENSE BUT NOT URBAN RIGHT
.
YOU'RE RIGHT THERE PARKING IS
IN FRONT THERE BEING PARKING
LOTS OF CURVILINEAR STREETS
THERE ON THE PERIPHERY OF THE
CITY.
BUT THEY ARE TEN TO TWENTY
DWELLING UNITS PER ACRE
PERHAPS.
>> YEAH.
SO WE CAN'T DO WHAT WE WANT
THERE IF WE DON'T AND MANY
OF THESE MAYBE IS YEAH.
>> UM SO THAT'S JUST A
CONSIDERATION FOR TRANSITION IS
LIKE WE ONLY HAVE THREE OPTIONS
CURRENTLY AND SO SOME OF THESE
I THINK DON'T FIT PERFECTLY BUT
WE WILL THROUGH THE LATER
PROCESSES BE ABLE TO FLESH
THESE OUT A LITTLE BIT MORE.
>> SURE.
AND I DO THINK SO.
I ACTUALLY LIVE AT THE NORTH
STAR AND I MOVED HERE REALLY
TWO STORIES BUT THAT AREA RIGHT
NOW FOR SURE IS NOT WALKABLE.
THERE IS RETAIL LIKE IF IT WAS
MORE WALKABLE LIKE THAT KROGER
IS NOT THAT FAR AWAY LIKE IS
THE IDEA OF TRANSITION NOT TO
LOOK FORWARD AND LIKE WHAT THIS
COULD BE AND LIKE 30, 40 YEARS
I MEAN A LOT THIS DEVELOPMENT
IS NOW FOR SURE.
>> RIGHT.
BUT I JUST WANT TO THROW THAT
OUT.
THERE'S OTHER CRITERIA OTHER
WAYS TO THINK TRANSITION.
I THINK IT'S IT MAKES SENSE
WHAT YOU'VE SAID THAT IT COULD
BE THERE BUT THERE ARE THINGS
TO CONSIDER BESIDES HEIGHT AND
DENSITY.
I REMEMBER THIS OTHER THAN
MAYBE WE SHOULD RENAME
TRANSITION THAT'S NOT PROBABLY
A CONVERSATION FOR TONIGHT.
I THINK I THINK IT'S LIKE I
THINK IT IS KIND OF THROWING A
LOT OF THIS DISCUSSION.
>> YEAH.
I MEAN WE MAY NEED A BETTER
NAME.
I CAN SEE THAT POINT.
ANY OTHER DISCUSSION?
I DO.
I WANT TO MAKE A COUPLE
OF POINTS.
UM THERE IS A LOT OF DENSITY
HERE IT IS IT IS IT IS SUBURBAN
STYLE DENSITY BUT IT'S DENSE SO
I DON'T KNOW HOW MUCH BANG FOR
OUR BUCK WE GET BUT THIS IS THE
NIXON CORRIDOR AND YOU CAN SEE
THE ROUNDABOUT THERE THAT THESE
THAT ONE OF THESE CONDO
DEVELOPMENTS WAS REQUIRED TO
PUT IN AND THEN THAT WHOLE
CORRIDORS RIGHT NOW GETTING
REMADE SO THAT IT HAS EXQUISITE
BIKE LANES AND GREAT
PEDESTRIANS.
SO IN TERMS OF THE THE
COMPONENT OF TRANSITION THAT IS
ABOUT WALKABILITY WHICH IS ONE
OF ITS FEATURES.
RIGHT.
IT'S NOT ONLY HEIGHT AND I MEAN
YES IT IS MIXED USE THIS THIS
IS IN THE RIGHT DIRECTION.
SO I MEAN I THINK THESE PEOPLE
ARE GOING TO FREAK OUT BECAUSE
SOMEONE WILL TELL THEM OH
YOU'RE GOING TO GET A 12 STOREY
SKYSCRAPER IN YOUR BACKYARD
WHICH WON'T BE TRUE.
>> BUT BUT IT IS IT
FITS THE
CRITERIA OF THE TRANSITION THE
LAND USE CRITERIA THAT TALK
ABOUT TRANSIT AND AGAIN THAT'S
IS ENTIRELY TRANSITION LIKE
POTENTIALLY SELF ADJUSTING
BECAUSE LIKE I THINK THAT
THERE'S A THREE STOREY
TOWNHOMES ACROSS ON THE EAST
WEST WEST SIDE OF NIXON'S
OF SOMEBODY CAME IN LIKE A
REDEVELOP THE APARTMENT COMPLEX
PROBABLY WE PROBABLY WOULD NOT
ALLOW THEM TO PUT IT INTO A TWO
STOREY BUILDING.
BUT I KNOW WHAT YOU'RE SAYING
AND AGAIN, I THINK THIS AREA
HAS CHANGED A LOT LIKE I GREW
UP THE KROGER WAS A FARMSTAND
AND THERE WERE NO BUILDINGS OUT
THERE AND IT WAS SO THAT'S
THAT'S THE FRAME YOU KNOW,
WHERE IT HAS CHANGED A LOT.
BUT WHEN YOU GO BY HERE,
THERE'S NOW A FARM STAND ON THE
OTHER SIDE AND THERE'S LOTS
OF PEOPLE WALKING.
>> AND SO I THINK THIS IS THIS
HAS BECOME LIKE IT'S GONE IN A
DIRECTION AND I THINK WE CAN
CONTINUE TO MAKE IT A REALLY
WALKABLE AREA AND WILL A LOT
CHANGE?
>> I MEAN I THINK THAT'S PART
OF LAND USE IS THINGS DON'T
ALWAYS CHANGE BUT BUT THAT'S
THE DIRECTION THAT WHERE YOU
SEE IT AND I THINK THAT'S
REASONABLE.
>> GO AHEAD.
CERTAINLY NATIONALLY I MEAN
YOUR COMMENT EARLIER ABOUT THE
WEIRDNESS OF HAVING A SMALL
ISLAND OF TRANSITION THIS WOULD
BE CREATING ANOTHER ISLAND
OF TRANSITION.
I'M OK WITH THAT.
IT MAKES SENSE BECAUSE IT'S
CURRENTLY ZONED FOR OUR HORSEY.
>> AND ONE OF THE RUBRIC ONE
OF THE ELEMENTS OF THE RUDBECK
WAS THAT OUR FORESE WOULD
NORMALLY GO INTO TRANSITION UM
AND JUST KIND OF VOICING
BECAUSE I'M STRUGGLING AND I
DON'T I'M A LITTLE BIT
UNCOMFORTABLE BY SAYING WELL
WE'RE WE SHOULD MAKE A
TRANSITION.
BUT OF COURSE STORY BUILDING
WOULD NEVER HAPPEN HERE.
WELL, BUT THAT'S CLEARLY STATED
IN THE DESCRIPTION OF WHAT IS
IN A TRANSITION.
SO I COULD SEE WHERE FOLKS ARE
SAYING YOU'RE TELLING ME
SOMETHING BUT YOU'RE NOT
TELLING ME WHAT'S TRUE BECAUSE
WHAT YOU'RE TELLING ME ISN'T
WHAT'S ACTUALLY ON THE PAGE IN
THAT PLAN SO THAT WE WON'T KNOW
THAT UNTIL THE ZONING ACTUALLY
COMES IN INSIDE TRANSITION
THERE MAY BE SOME ZONES RIGHT?
>> I THINK THERE'S AN
OPPORTUNITY TO REWRITE THAT
SECTION.
I'M NOT DISAGREEING WITH YOU.
I'M I'M SURPRISINGLY I'M
AGREEING WITH YOU ABOUT THE WAY
THINGS ARE WRITTEN AND THE
COMMENTS THAT ARE BEING MADE
AND THE LOGIC OF HOW WE'RE KIND
OF DOING THINGS.
YEP.
AND I WANT TO JUST BE REALLY
CAREFUL ESPECIALLY THE FEEDBACK
WE'VE BEEN GIVING THAT THERE'S
SOME GOOD REASONING BEHIND WHAT
WE'RE DOING.
>> THIS IS IT'S IT'S
COMPLICATED AND I WILL JUST ADD
FOR OUR DISCUSSION THE
CHALLENGES OF THE LOW RISE
RESIDENTIAL CAPSIS IMPACTING
SOME OF THIS.
THIS IS ALSO LIKE A GATEWAY
INTO ANN ARBOR FROM THE NORTH
ESSENTIALLY.
>> SO LIKE YOU COULD ARGUE THAT
TRANSITION HERE I DID MAKES
SOME SENSE.
>> YEAH.
SO I THINK THERE IS SUPPORT SO
CAN WE MOVE TO A ROLL CALL VOTE
THAT DID THAT DOWN HERE TO
DESIGNATE THIS AREA IN THE
SECTION OF NIXON ROAD AS
TRANSITION ISH?
>> YES HAMMERSCHMIDT YES.
>> ABRAN YES.
YEAH.
>> MILLS NO.
WEATHERBEE YES.
I'LL TELL YOU WHAT I'M SO YES
NORTON YES.
BECAUSE OF THE AIR FORCE
CURRENT DESIGNATION FOR THAT
SEVEN TO ONE UH YES THAT WAS
SEVEN CARRIES SEVEN ONE.
>> YEAH SURE.
SO I'M AGAIN I'M JUST TRYING TO
FIGURE OUT CONSISTENCY IN THE
RUBRIC.
RIGHT.
AND SO NOW I'M ON PAGE 112
OF THE DOCUMENT WHERE IT'S
TALKING ABOUT WHEN WE MAKE
DECISIONS ABOUT OUR FOUR, OUR
THREE AND OUR FOUR.
>> RIGHT.
AND WHAT'S IN THERE THEY'RE
DESIGNATED EITHER AS
RESIDENTIAL OR TRANSITION BASED
ON PROXIMITY TO PROPOSED RAPID
TRANSIT LINES WHICH THERE'S NOT
PROPOSED RAPID TRANSIT LINE TO
MY KNOWLEDGE HERE EVEN THOUGH
THERE IS SO I THINK EITHER WE
NEED TO CHANGE THAT THERE'S
GOOD INFRASTRUCTURE BUT I THINK
WE NEED TO CHANGE OR ADJACENCY
TO PREVIOUSLY DESIGNATED HUB
DISTRICTS AND WE IT'S NOT THAT
SO I'M JUST SAYING LIKE MAYBE
WE NEED TO I THINK THAT BASED
ON THE DECISION THAT WE JUST
MADE, WE NEED TO TWEAK THAT
PARAGRAPH.
I WOULD LIKE TO TAKE THAT
YEP.
PARAGRAPH.
SO CAN WE FLAGGED UP BUT NOT
YEP.
RIGHT NOW.
SO CAN WE FLAGGED UP BUT NOT
LET'S STAY HERE AND THEN WE'LL
RIGHT NOW.
COME BACK TO THAT COMMISSIONER
LET'S STAY HERE AND THEN WE'LL
AND I'M GOING TO THAT YOU MAY
COME BACK TO THAT COMMISSIONER
AND WE SHOULD ALSO BE CLEAR ON
AND I'M GOING TO THAT YOU MAY
REVISING THE PARAGRAPH THAT WE
AND WE SHOULD ALSO BE CLEAR ON
ARE HEADED TOWARDS FINE TUNING
REVISING THE PARAGRAPH THAT WE
THE HEIGHT RESTRICTIONS AND
ARE HEADED TOWARDS FINE TUNING
THINGS THAT ARE WITHIN
THE HEIGHT RESTRICTIONS AND
TRANSITIONAL DISTRICTS BASED ON
THINGS THAT ARE WITHIN
THE CONTEXT I KNOW THERE'S SOME
TRANSITIONAL DISTRICTS BASED ON
DISCUSSION ABOUT HOW
THE CONTEXT I KNOW THERE'S SOME
COMPLICATED THAT'S GOING TO GET
DISCUSSION ABOUT HOW
BUT WE'RE HEADING IN THE
COMPLICATED THAT'S GOING TO GET
DIRECTION AS WE FINE-TUNE THIS
BUT WE'RE HEADING IN THE
MAP THAT WE'RE GOING TO NEED TO
DIRECTION AS WE FINE-TUNE THIS
FIND THE ZONING THAT FOLLOWS
MAP THAT WE'RE GOING TO NEED TO
AFTER THAT TO MAKE SURE IT FITS
FIND THE ZONING THAT FOLLOWS
.
AFTER THAT TO MAKE SURE IT FITS
AND I DON'T KNOW THAT WE NEED
.
TO DECIDE THAT TONIGHT BUT WE
AND I DON'T KNOW THAT WE NEED
NEED TO SIGNAL IN THE PLAN WE
TO DECIDE THAT TONIGHT BUT WE
RECOGNIZE THAT THAT DECISION
NEED TO SIGNAL IN THE PLAN WE
THAT THAT CLARIFICATION IS
RECOGNIZE THAT THAT DECISION
GOING TO HAVE TO BE PART OF THE
THAT THAT CLARIFICATION IS
DISCUSSION.
GOING TO HAVE TO BE PART OF THE
>> WELL, THERE'S GOT TO BE SOME
DISCUSSION.
SOME PARAMETERS SETTING A RED
>> WELL, THERE'S GOT TO BE SOME
TRANSITION BECAUSE IT'S IT
SOME PARAMETERS SETTING A RED
THERE IT'S A DIFFERENT IT'S
TRANSITION BECAUSE IT'S IT
BEEN SAID LIKE IT'S THIS IT'S
THERE IT'S A DIFFERENT IT'S
THAT LIKE IT COULD BE THREE YOU
BEEN SAID LIKE IT'S THIS IT'S
KNOW YOU KNOW IT'S JUST ALL
THAT LIKE IT COULD BE THREE YOU
OVER THE PLACE AND WE CAN'T
KNOW YOU KNOW IT'S JUST ALL
HAVE THAT THAT HAS TO CLARIFY.
OVER THE PLACE AND WE CAN'T
>> OK, SO SO WE'LL NEED TO GO
HAVE THAT THAT HAS TO CLARIFY.
BACK TO THE TEXT AND DO SOME
>> OK, SO SO WE'LL NEED TO GO
FINE TUNING BUT CAN WE MAYBE
BACK TO THE TEXT AND DO SOME
REDO THE MAP AGAIN?
FINE TUNING BUT CAN WE MAYBE
NO CAN WE CAN YOU CHANGE YOUR
REDO THE MAP AGAIN?
MIND PLEASE GO ON.
NO CAN WE CAN YOU CHANGE YOUR
BUT I LOCATED I JUST WANNA
MIND PLEASE GO ON.
REMIND US THAT WE DO SAY IT'S
BUT I LOCATED I JUST WANNA
CONTEXT SENSITIVE ITSELF
REMIND US THAT WE DO SAY IT'S
ADJUSTING IN TERMS OF ITS
CONTEXT SENSITIVE ITSELF
HEIGHT ITS LOW NEAR RESIDENTIAL
ADJUSTING IN TERMS OF ITS
IT'S HIGH NEAR HUB WE SAY ALL
HEIGHT ITS LOW NEAR RESIDENTIAL
THAT PAGE ONE THINK WE DO SO WE
IT'S HIGH NEAR HUB WE SAY ALL
CAN GET BACK WE CAN GO BACK AND
THAT PAGE ONE THINK WE DO SO WE
MAKE SURE WE'RE SAYING IT THE
CAN GET BACK WE CAN GO BACK AND
WAY WE WANT TO BUT WE WE ARE
MAKE SURE WE'RE SAYING IT THE
SAYING THAT YEP.
WAY WE WANT TO BUT WE WE ARE
>> OK, NO I THOUGHT YOU WERE ON
SAYING THAT YEP.
FIVE OK AROUND FOUR AND I JUST
>> OK, NO I THOUGHT YOU WERE ON
KEEP DOWN THE COMP SO THIS IS
FIVE OK AROUND FOUR AND I JUST
DESIGNATED R FOR A THESE ARE
KEEP DOWN THE COMP SO THIS IS
THE CHAPEL HILL CONDOS.
DESIGNATED R FOR A THESE ARE
THEY'RE TWO STORIES HOWEVER I
THE CHAPEL HILL CONDOS.
WOULD SUPPORT I WOULD LIKE TO
THEY'RE TWO STORIES HOWEVER I
MAKE A MOTION THAT WE CHANGE
WOULD SUPPORT I WOULD LIKE TO
THIS TO A DESIGNATION
MAKE A MOTION THAT WE CHANGE
OF TRANSITION BECAUSE IT IS
THIS TO A DESIGNATION
ADJACENT TO HUB.
OF TRANSITION BECAUSE IT IS
>> YEAH.
ADJACENT TO HUB.
AND IT'S NEAR TO WANT TO SEND
>> YEAH.
IT RIGHT.
AND IT'S NEAR TO WANT TO SEND
>> MM.
IT RIGHT.
DID YOU MOVE THAT.
>> MM.
SHE DID.
DID YOU MOVE THAT.
I MOVED I'M SORRY THE AREA NOW
SHE DID.
FOR CHAPEL HILL CONDOS
I MOVED I'M SORRY THE AREA NOW
DESIGNATED TRANSITION MANAGER
FOR CHAPEL HILL CONDOS
KELLY IT WAS MOVED BY
DESIGNATED TRANSITION MANAGER
COMMISSIONER ABRAMS AND
KELLY IT WAS MOVED BY
SECONDED BY COMMISSIONER
COMMISSIONER ABRAMS AND
HAMMERSCHMIDT DISCUSSION
SAKE
AND THE REASON WE IT'S
CURRENTLY DESIGNATED R FOR A SO
IT'S CURRENTLY ALREADY HAS A
ZONING DESIGNATION THAT WOULD
ALLOW UP TO FORTY FIVE FEET IF
PARKING IS UNDERNEATH WHICH IS
HIGHER THAN WHAT THE MARGIN FOR
THE RESIDENTIAL ZONE AND IT'S
ALSO ADJACENT TO HUB DIRECTLY
BELOW.
SO IT SEEMS LIKE AN AREA
ADJACENT TO HUB WOULD MAKE
SENSE FOR TRANSITION IF IT'S
CURRENTLY ZONED R FOR THOUGHT I
HEARD AND IT'S CLOSE TO IT'S
CLOSE TO CLOSE TO A TWO ONE
CORRIDOR PLYMOUTH.
YEAH I MEAN IT'S ALREADY CLOSE
TO COMMERCIAL AND RETAIL.
YEAH.
>> SO I'M NOT SURE WHY IT'S NO
WAS THERE A REASON THAT WASN'T
THAT I CAN SO IN GENERAL IF IT
WAS IN TRANSITION IT'S BECAUSE
UNDER OUR CURRENT FRAMEWORK
THESE WOULD HAVE BEEN ALLOWED
IN RESIDENTIAL RIGHT AT WHAT IS
BUT THAT ACTUALLY GOT CHANGED
SO BECAUSE YOU CAN'T GO FORTY
FIVE FEET AND LOW RISE
RESIDENTIAL HEIGHT.
YEAH BUT I MEAN LIKE THESE
TYPES OF STRUCTURES WHAT'S
CURRENTLY BUILT THERE RIGHT.
>> BUT NOT WHAT'S ALLOWABLE
THERE RIGHT.
YEAH WHAT'S ALLOWABLE IS NO
LONGER ALLOWABLE IN RESIDENTIAL
IF IT WERE TO BE REZO HOW IS
THE CONNECTIVITY THOUGH FOR
THIS THING IF YOU LOOK AT IT
I'M LOOKING FOR SOMETHING THAT
LETS ME GET FROM ONE END TO THE
OTHER AND NORTH TO SOUTH SO YOU
CAN SEE WITH A LOT OF THESE
MULTIFAMILY LARGER DEVELOPMENTS
THERE.
>> YES.
THEY'RE NOT THEY'RE NOT
GROUTED.
NO.
YEAH.
THAT'S THE ONE ISSUE THAT THE
PROXIMITY TO TAKE ONE WHILE
CORRECT.
THERE'S ACTUALLY I DON'T SEE
THE ANY DIRECT ACCESS YOU'RE
GOING TO HAVE TO WAG AROUND TO
GET THERE.
IT'S A SERIES CALLED THE SEX.
YES.
THAT'S NOT A THERE'S NO IT'S
RIGHT UP HERE BUT IF WE CAN'T
DEVELOP ANYTHING NOT A SERIES I
MEAN TO ME IT SEEMS WE WANT THE
FUTURE TO BE NOT COLACELLO
DENSITY SERIES OF COLOR SEX.
YEAH.
I'M NOT GOING TO PRETEND LIKE I
UNDERSTAND HOW LIKE AN A CONDO
COMMUNITY WOULD NEVER LIKE SELL
IT ALL AND TOTALLY REDO IT.
BUT I WOULD IMAGINE THAT IT'S
POSSIBLE LIKE MAYBE THEY GET
CONDEMNED AND THEN LIKE A
DEVELOPER COMES IN AND THEN I
MEAN GREEN IS ACTUALLY NOT BAD
TO WALK DOWN OR BIKE DOWN AND
IT'S CLOSED TO RETAIL.
>> YEAH OK, DO WE WANT TO POST
A POSTCARD?
>> I DO.
THERE'S LIKE A POST OFFICE JUST
SOUTH OF THAT PARCEL.
YEAH.
ALL RIGHT I THINK WE'RE READY
TO VOTE MANAGER KELLY ON A
MOTION TO CHANGE THE AREA
INSIDE FOR NEAR GREEN ROAD IN
CHAPEL HILL CONDOS TO
TRANSITION DISTRICT WISCH YES.
HAMMERSCHMIDT YES.
ABRAN YES.
THIS YES.
MILLS YES.
WETHERBEE YES.
ATOM'S YES.
NORTON YES.
>> EXCELLENT.
MOVING RIGHT ALONG CARRIES WITH
IT YES.
>> OK SO NOW UM AREA FIVE IS
TWO REALLY A COMBINATION OF TWO
AREAS BUT THEY SHOULD ALL BE
CAPTURED HERE IN THE ZONING MAP
IN THE FUTURE LAND USE MAP UM I
THINK THAT THE
ONE PROBABLY IS
WANTED HERE RIGHT IS THAT IF
IT'S R FOR A AN HOUR FOR IT TO
MOVE TO TRANSITION THAT'S MY
ASSUMPTION WHY THIS WAS CALLED
OUT AS BEING DOWNTURNED.
YEAH.
AND THEN THERE'S A LITTLE
EARHART VILLAGE WHICH IS THE
AR3 WOULD BE WE'RE ON PAGE FIVE
SO GLACIER HILLS SENIOR HOMES
OR SOMETHING LIKE THAT IS UP TO
FIVE STORIES ACTUALLY PART
OF CURRENTLY AND THEN
TRAVANCORE APARTMENTS THREE
STORIES EARHART VILLAGE TWO
STORIES.
THAT'S THE AH THREE CHUNK DO
OF A PROPOSAL.
>> I WOULD PREFER TO LEAVE IT
OUT FOR YOU ALONE.
I MEAN THIS IS MY AREA I WOULD
PROPOSE TO LEAVE THE CAR THREE
AS RESIDENTIAL I'M OPEN TO
CONVERSATION I KNOW THE OTHERS.
>> YEAH I MEAN IT'S THAT THAT
TO ME FEELS LIKE A LOT
OF TRANSITION THAT DOESN'T THAT
THAT ER IS JUST NOT AT THIS
POINT IN TIME.
IT IS MY CLIENTS LOOK IT'S NOT
LIKE THERE'S NO WALKABILITY.
THIS IS NOT LIKE A MIXED USE
HUB AREA LIKE GREEN HILLS
SCHOOL IS RIGHT ON THE RIGHT.
>> IT'S PROPOSED AS RESIDENTIAL
RIGHT.
IT'S IN OUR THREE SO I'M JUST
SAYING KEEP IT RESIDENTIAL.
I WAS GOING TO SAY I FEEL LIKE
WE OUGHT TO JUST THIS ONE MAYBE
JUST LIKE NO ONE WANTS IF
THERE'S NOT A CLEAR MOTION IF
IT DOESN'T LOOK LIKE LOW
HANGING FRUIT, LET'S LEAVE IT
AND THEN MAYBE WE HAVE CLARITY
AROUND WHAT WE'RE DOING WITH
THE HARD ONES AT THE END
BECAUSE THIS ONE LOOKS MESSY
LIKE THE THE PONTIAC TRAIL ONE
LOOKS MESSY.
IT DOESN'T LOOK CLEAN AND IT
DOESN'T REALLY SCREAM TO ME
LIKE IT NEEDS TO CHANGE THE
OTHER INSTEAD.
>> SO LET'S KEEP KEEP MOVING.
LET'S GO TO NUMBER SIX SIX.
>> OK, SO THIS IS THE IS THIS A
CONDO ASSOCIATION THAT'S ACROSS
FROM HERACLES OR GATTI'S LIKE
THIS THERE ARE TWO STOREY TOWN
HOMES I I MEAN IT'S SO IT'S AR3
YES.
WE SHOULD ENVISION WHAT WE LIKE
THAT IS THE PURPOSE OF THIS
EXERCISE.
>> I MEAN IT'S NEXT TO US IT'S
NEXT TO A SCHOOL AND IT'S UP
THE STREET FROM A PARK.
THERE'S NO COMMERCIAL HERE BUT
IF THEY'RE IF IT WAS TRANSITION
AND THOSE TOWNSHIP ISLANDS CAME
IT WOULD BE A WALKABLE 15
MINUTE NEIGHBORHOOD.
YOU'RE AT LIBERTY BLOOMING
RESIDENTIAL IS REALLY LIKE YEAH
IT IS IT'S IT'S REALLY IT'S
REALLY DIFFICULT.
>> THERE ARE TWO CHURCHES
THERE.
THERE ARE TWO CHURCHES ON YOUR
WAY UP THERE WHICH MAY NOT BE
WALKABLE BECAUSE THOSE I'VE
BIKED THOSE HILLS THEY'RE NOT
THE BEST WALKABLE SPACES BUT
SHARON HIGH SCHOOL.
>> YEAH.
HERE ON HIGH SCHOOLS IN THE
LOWER LEFT YOU CAN SEE THE THE
CIRCULAR BUILDING AND THEN I
THINK THAT'S THE TRACK.
SO I WOULD LIKE IF I WERE
COLORING IT WOULD ALL BE YELLOW
BUT I'M NOT THE ONE COLOR AND I
DON'T THINK I CAN MAKE A MOTION
AS A CHAIR SO I HAVE TO WAIT ON
YOU AS THIS GOES LIKE FOR SOME
OF THOSE CONDOS ON THE OTHER
SIDE OF OH NO WAIT WHERE AM I?
>> YEAH, THIS IS GARY'S LAKE
OK?
IT'S ALL JUST GETTING LIKE THE
ENTIRE BECAUSE THERE'S MORE
YEAH YEAH.
IF YOU'RE GOING TO DO THAT I
FEEL LIKE YOU SHOULD DO MORE.
>> THIS IS PRETTY ALL RIGHT SO
THEY'RE CLOSED.
YEAH I THINK THEY'RE LIKE
THEY'RE CONDOS BUT I THINK
THEY'RE MORE OR LESS LIKE A
DETACHED SINGLE FAMILY.
>> YEAH THEY ARE YEAH YEAH OK
BUT AGAIN WELL THAT WOULD BE
RENT LET'S HIGHLIGHTED AS WE
DID NUMBER FOR NUMBER ONE AND
THEN COME BACK TO IT NUMBER
FIVE SIXTY ONE SORRY AGAIN I
KNOW THAT WE WANT ONE CONDITION
WHAT WE WANT OUR FUTURE TO LOOK
LIKE I WILL JUST SAY I DON'T
KNOW HOW MUCH TIME WE WANT TO
SPEND CONTEMPLATE HOW WE MIGHT
CHANGE OUR WAYS WHERE AS YOU
MENTIONED THEY WOULD HAVE TO
COMPLETELY DISSOLVE OR CHANGE
ALL OF THEIR RULES FOR US TO
HAVE ANY IMPACT ON THEM.
RIGHT.
YEAH.
AND SO THESE ARE TWO ONES TO ME
ARE NOT WANTS TO SPEND MONEY
BUT YOU DO HAVE ALL THIS THE
VIOLENCE THAT ARE AROUND IT AND
SO IF IN A TWENTY EIGHT SORRY
I'M NOT SPEAKING IN TIME I
MIGHT GET A TWENTY YEAR LOOK
AHEAD YOU IF THIS WAS
TRANSITION YOU COULD DO A LOT
WITH THOSE TOWNSHIP ISLANDS
BECAUSE ONE DAY WOULD COME IN
AND THEN THEY CAN BRING DENSITY
AND THAT'S GOING TO HELP THE
SCHOOL.
THE PARK IS THERE THEY'VE GOT A
LOT OF GREEN SPACE.
THE UNIVERSITY IS ON THE OTHER
SIDE HERE ON PARKWAY.
SO YOU HAVE PEOPLE THERE'S A
DAYCARE CENTER THAT'S RIGHT
THERE AS WELL.
YOU HAVE THE VA HOSPITAL UP THE
STREET.
SO IT'S THERE'S POTENTIALLY A
THERE'S A LOT OF POTENTIAL AND
I'M THINKING ABOUT IT THROUGH
THE LENS OF THE TOWNSHIP
VIOLENCE BUT I UNDERSTAND THE
RESTRICTION THAT WE HAVE WITH
THE POLICE.
SO I'M NOT PROPOSING ANYTHING.
>> IT ALSO DOESN'T FOLLOW SOME
OF THE OTHER CRITERIA THAT WE
CURRENTLY HAVE FOR TRANSITION.
SO AGAIN, THAT'S GOING TO BE
TWEAKED AND SO THAT'S WHY IT'S
SORT OF HARD TO MAKE THESE IF
WE'RE GOING TO CHANGE WITH
THOSE CRITERIA AH IN THAT IT'S
NOT ON A COURT OR IT'S NOT
CLOSE TO A HUB, IT'S AN EACH
RESIDENTIAL AREA.
>> SO I WOULD AGREE LET'S PUT
THIS IN THE WILL COME BACK TO
IT BUCKET.
>> SURE.
OK YEAH.
SO IF WE MOVE TO PAGE SEVEN UM
THIS IS REALLY CLOSE TO THE BIG
DEVELOPMENT WITH THE WHOLE
FOODS AND THE BARNES NOBLE AND
THE WALGREENS ON DENHA YOU CAN
SEE THE TRANSITION ZONING
CREEPING IN FROM THE BOTTOM
HERE SO THE R FOR B THERE IS
BRENTWOOD SQUARE CONDOS.
THOSE ARE THREE STOREY
TOWNHOUSES SO THAT CURRENTLY
HAS A FORTY FIVE FOOT HEIGHT
LIMIT WHEN THEY'VE BUILT OVER
PARKING ON ON THE WEST
NORTHWEST SIDE OF HERE ON
PARKWAY THERE'S OUR HERE ON
CHASE CONDOS WHICH ARE
CURRENTLY TWO STORIES ZONED OUR
THREE.
I WOULD LIKE TO MAKE A MOTION
THAT BOTH OF THOSE BE
DESIGNATED TRANSITION.
>> IS THERE A SECOND A SECOND
GROUP DID YOU ARE YOU SCOOPING
UP OFFICE RIGHT THERE?
>> IT ALREADY IS.
I THINK THE OFFICE IS ALREADY
DESIGNATED OH IT'S ALREADY
KRISTAPS CREEK.
I'M SORRY YOU HAVE IT
DISCUSSION.
COULD SOMEONE REPEAT THE SECOND
OR ME?
IT WAS COMMISSIONER
HAMMERSCHMIDT.
>> SOUNDS LIKE WE'RE READY.
>> SO THE IDEA IS TO EXTEND THE
TRANSITION UP INTO THIS SITE IN
THIS PLAN.
YEAH, THEY'RE IT'S ALREADY WITH
THE R FOR A BIT UP TO THE R
THREE AND THE R FOR B YES.
CORRECT.
AND THAT'S HERE ON PARKWAY AM I
LOOKING AT.
YES THAT'S WHAT I THOUGHT FROM
MY THING.
>> YEAH IT'S PUT OFF BECAUSE
MELT CREEK NATURE AREA NURTURE
NATURE AREA ARE IN THE MIDDLE.
YEAH BUT I DON'T I THINK THOSE
CAN JUST STAY AS NICE LITTLE
NATURAL AREAS AND IN THE MIDDLE
DON'T WANT TO BUILD A TUNNEL
STORY BUILDING YOU KNOW GOOD
BIRDWATCH STORY.
>> WE DON'T WANT TO BUILD A 20
STORY HE'S NOT ON THE PARK LAND
.
NO I DON'T WANT TO BUILD THERE
IS A REASONABLE PLAN TO BUILD
SEE PEOPLE DO UNDERSTAND THE
LATER IT GETS THE PUNCHIER WE
BECOME WE RENT ABOUT WE GET
QUOTED WHAT IT WAS ASKING WHY
IT WASN'T INCLUDED.
IT'S OUR TRANSITION I THINK
BECAUSE IT WOULD HAVE FIT IN
OUR ORIGINAL RESIDENTIAL
OF LONG CALLED SICK BECAUSE
OF THE NEW HEIGHT LIMITS AND
LOW RISE.
SO THE REASONS TO GIVEN THE
REASONS TO PULL BACK IN THE
TRANSITION ARE BECAUSE OF ITS
PROXIMITY TO OTHER TRANSITION
PROXIMITY, PROXIMITY TO
COMMERCIAL AND ATC ONE CORRIDOR
BUT ALSO THAT ITS CURRENT
ZONING WOULD ALLOW UP TO FORTY
FIVE FEET AND THE NEW LAND USE
DESIGNATION OSTENSIBLY EVERY
ZONE WOULD REDUCE THAT TO THREE
STORIES
.
>> PARK MANAGER KELLY WE'RE
READY FOR A VOTE OK ON THE
MOTION TO DESIGNATE THEIR
INSIDE SEVEN TRANSITION WISCH
YES HAMMERSCHMIDT YES ABRAMS
YES DISH YES.
>> MELS YES.
WETHERBEE YES ADAM YES.
NORTON YES.
THAT CARRIES EIGHT OUR LAND THE
LAND BEHIND JJ IS ITS FIELD
VILLAGE.
>> YES.
>> ANYONE WANT TO TALK ABOUT
THIS ONE.
SO IT'S VERY DENSE.
IF I COULD PROVIDE A LITTLE
CONTEXT HERE JUST BECAUSE IN MY
FORMER POSITION AT THE CITY
WORKED ON THIS PROJECT THEY'RE
UNDERGOING A HUGE PROJECT RIGHT
NOW TO UPGRADE THEIR WATER AND
STORMWATER I THINK REPAVE THEIR
ROADS.
UM, THEY ARE A CONDUIT SO MUCH
OF THIS IS A CONDO ASSOCIATION.
>> THEY ARE WHAT WE WOULD CALL
NATURALLY OCCURRING AFFORDABLE
HOUSING.
THEY'RE MUCH SMALLER CONDOS
THAT GO FOR REALLY IN THE TWO
HUNDRED THOUSANDS UM AND
THEY'RE RIGHT BEHIND URBAN LAND
.
SO THERE'S A LOT TO CONSIDER
FOR THE SITE.
YEAH.
I'M NOT MAKING A MOTION TO
CHANGE.
>> OK?
>> I'M ENTERTAINING A MOTION.
>> ALL RIGHT LET'S GO TO NUMBER
NINE.
WE'LL COME BACK OH WE'RE COMING
BACK.
>> YEAH BECAUSE IF WE DON'T
HAVE EMOTION THEN WE'RE JUST
GOING TO TALK ABOUT IT MAYBE
MAYBE WE JUST WANT TO CHANGE
IT.
>> THAT DOESN'T OH I WOULD LOVE
FOR IT TO BE AS MUCH AS
POSSIBLE.
>> ALL RIGHT.
PAGE NINE ON THE BALLONA BEFORE
THERE IS A BIG AH THREE THAT IS
CURRENTLY UNIVERSITY CO-OP
TOWNHOUSES.
YEAH BUT IT'S
UP AGAINST WHAT'S
CURRENTLY DESIGNATED AS A
TRANSITION ZONE.
>> MM HMM.
SO IT WOULD BE THAT AREA
BETWEEN SOUTHEAST AREA PARK AND
THE TRANSITION ZONE BELOW 90
FOR RIGHT.
SO NUMBER NINE HAS TO IF YOU
ALL HAVE THE OVERVIEW MAP TO
AREAS SO IT'S THIS AREA RIGHT
HERE RIGHT NEXT TO HER RIGHT
ABOVE SE WHAT ARE WE CALLING IT
NOW?
>> IT'S THE BICENTENNIAL PARK
SOUTHEASTERN PARK AND THEN UM
JUST TO THE WEST OF THAT AS
WELL WHERE THOSE ARE THREE ARE
FOR A AH BUT AH FOR A IS
ALREADY MARKED TRANSITION MOST
OF IT MOST EFFORT GREAT REALLY
ONLY HALF OF IT LOOKS LIKE ALL
OF IT TO ME BASED ON THE CURVE
ON THE LEFT SIDE OF THE GREEN
SQUARE THAT'S BUT ON THE RIGHT
THAT'S OUR THREE RIGHT SO I OH
AND THEN THERE'S THAT
INTERESTING LITTLE TRANSITION
TRIANGLE OK THAT'S CURRENTLY
CTV.
I WOULD LIKE TO MAKE A MOTION
TO DESIGNATE WHAT'S CURRENTLY R
THREE THE UNIVERSITY CO-OP
TOWNHOUSES TO TRANSITION.
CAN YOU REPEAT THAT I'M SORRY
CHANGE THE R THREE TO DURIANS.
I WOULD LIKE TO MAKE A MOTION
TO CONVERT PAGE NINE THE R
THREE AREA CURRENTLY OCCUPIED
BY UNIVERSITY CO-OP TOWNHOUSES
TO TRANSITION ARE THOSE THE
ONES SOUTH OF NINETY FOUR NORTH
SOUTH OF NINETY FOUR BETWEEN
SOUTH WEST OF SOUTHEAST AREA
PARK.
>> OK BUT YOU WANT TO LEAVE THE
OTHER R THREES AS RESIDENTIAL.
>> I AM NOT PROPOSING IS THERE
A SECOND COMMISSIONER MILLS'
SECOND DISCUSSION THIS STOOD
OUT TO ME THE FIRST TIME IT'S
ELSWORTH IS NOTED AS A
TRANSITION OR AS A CORRIDOR AND
SO WHY THAT WHOLE THING IS NOT
KORD OR TRANSITION I DIDN'T
UNDERSTAND FROM THE GO I'M
SORRY WHEN YOU SAY THAT WHOLE
THING DO ANYTHING ALONG
ELSWORTH SORRY THAT THAT'S A
BUDDING ELSWORTH GOING UP TO
NINETY FOUR UP TO NINETY FOUR
LIKE IN MY MIND YEAH WELL THE
WHOLE THING IS THERE I GUESS AT
THE VERY LEAST WHATEVER IT IS
WE HAVE A WIDTH JUST LIKE WE
APPLIED ALONG MILLER RIGHT FOR
TRANSITION.
I DIDN'T UNDERSTAND WHY WE
DIDN'T APPLY THAT OLD LONG
ELSWORTH AND SO AT LEAST THAT
PART ABSOLUTELY MAKES SENSE
GOING UP ALL THE WAY FOR THE
THREE I MEAN I I COULD BE
SWAYED TO DO THE RNC BUT I FEEL
LIKE THAT'S NOT OUR NORMAL RULE
SO I'M OK WITH IT JUST BEING
THAT AR3 THREE BUT AT LEAST THE
FRONT EDGE ALONG ELSWORTH
NICOTINE'S CAN I ALSO VOTE FOR
IT.
>> YEAH IT FEELS LIKE EVEN ON
THE JUST WEST OF THAT BLUE BLOB
ALONG ELSWORTH YEAH.
SO WE'VE BEEN FARTHER LIKE THAT
SHOULD IN MY MIND THAT SHOULD
BE TRANSITION AS WELL.
>> THE VERY BOTTOM LEFT CORNER
BETWEEN YELLOW AND BLUE BLOB
THAT'S THE LONG ELSWORTH AND IF
ELSWORTH IS ONE OF THESE SCROLL
DOWN.
>> OH THAT'S BUT THAT'S MESHACH
MICHELLE WE'RE NOT SEEING THE
WHOLE PAGE IN THE VIEW.
THERE YOU GO.
OK, SO I'M NOT SURE WHY IT
PULLS UP SHORT THERE BECAUSE
THAT'S WHERE IT CURRENTLY
TRANSITIONS FROM OUR THREE TO
OUR ONE.
>> SEE OK DOES IT IT SHOULD
EXTEND TO THE EAST I THINK TO
THE PARK I AGREE.
>> YEAH AND SO DO WE.
THAT ENTIRE THREE AREA MAKES A
LOT OF SENSE.
>> OK, SO IS THE MOTION NOW TO
JUST EXTEND TRANSITION ALL THE
WAY TO THE BOTTOM NOW MY MOTION
IS STILL TO SEE YOU CURRENTLY
ARE THREE BUT AND TURNS INTO
TRANSITION SO IT GOES EXTENDS
FROM ELSEWHERE ALL THE WAY UP
TO NINETY FOUR OK SO THE THE R
FOR A IS ALREADY TRANSITION
CORRECT THE PUDI IN THE R THREE
TO THE LEFT OR THE LEFT SIDE
OF THIS MAP IS ALREADY
TRANSITION AND THEN IT GOES
NORTH.
>> IF THIS IS NORTH DOES IT
CAPTURE THAT TOWNSHIP ISLAND
MICHELLE THE TRANSITION UM IT
LOOKS LIKE IT WHICH THERE'S A
TOWNSHIP ISLAND AT THE TOP AND
SO I DON'T I DON'T THINK IT
DOES BUT IT'S A TOWNSHIP ISLAND
UM I THINK IT DOES BECAUSE
OTHERWISE THE TOWNSHIP WHEN YOU
HAVE A BLOBBING MAP.
SURE.
SO WITH THIS TOWNSHIP ISLAND BE
RESIDENTIAL AND LOW RISE
RESIDENTIAL IF WE LOOK AT RIGHT
WHERE YOUR CURSORS YEAH.
>> OK I MEAN I DON'T I WOULDN'T
SAY THAT THAT IS CURRENTLY
RESIDENTIAL.
OK THE WAY I'M LOOKING AT THIS
NO THAT'S FINE IT'S IMPRECISE.
I'M GOING TO DO THIS IS A CO-OP
THOUGH THIS PART.
>> YEAH YEAH RIGHT.
ARE YOU TALKING NOW BACK TO THE
AR3.
>> OH NO I THINK WE'RE ALL IN
AGREEMENT TO INCLUDE THE R
THREE TO THE PARK IN TRANSITION
TO SE AREA PARK.
>> YES OK I WAS SPECIFICALLY
ASKING ABOUT THE R ONE C IN THE
TOWNSHIP ISLAND THAT ARE
ADJACENT.
IT LOOKS LIKE THOSE ARE GOING
TO GO TO LOW RISE RESIDENTIAL.
SO IS THERE A CONCERN WITH
CO-OP THAT WE IF WE MAKE IF WE
GIVE MORE ABILITY TO BUILD THAT
WE WILL REDUCE THE LIKELIHOOD
THEY REMAIN CO-OP?
I MEAN THEY STILL HAVE TO VOTE
AND LIKE I GUESS THAT'S MY
QUESTION IS SORRY WHERE ARE
THESE NOT MADE TRANSITION IN
ORDER TO KEEP THEM MORE I THINK
OWNERSHIP STATUS OR OR MODEL IS
REALLY IS CONSIDERED IN ZONING
A CURRENT OWNERSHIP STATUS.
YEAH, IT IS REALLY.
>> BUT YOU MENTIONED WITH THE
HIGGS FIELD BUT RIGHT.
LIKE YOU MENTIONED WHAT EXACTLY
LIKE WITH WITH WITH PITTSFIELD
VILLAGE FIELD VILLAGE THAT THEY
ARE CURRENTLY AFFORDABLE AND SO
CHANGING THE ZONING COULD OH I
WASN'T TRYING TO IMPLY THAT I
WAS JUST GIVING SOME BACKGROUND
OF THE AREA.
>> OK, SO WHAT IF I DON'T KNOW
IF YOU HAVE ANOTHER MAP THAT
EXPANDS THE TRANSITION FOR THIS
BECAUSE IT ISN'T THAT STONE
SCHOOL TO THE LEFT SIDE OF THIS
MAP THAT WE'RE LOOKING AT AND
ALL OF STONE SCHOOL IS IN THE
TRANSITION SO WE'RE REALLY
GOING TO JUST CREATE THIS
RESIDENTIAL LIKE IMAN.
>> YEAH, IT'S GOING TO BE
SURROUNDED ALL BY TRANSITION ON
EVERY SIDE.
>> OK, THAT'S A CONSIDERATION.
YEAH I I DON'T SEE WHY WE DON'T
JUST SCOOP IT ALL TO THE PARK
BUT I DIDN'T MAKE THE MOTION SO
YEP.
>> ALL THE WAY BUT WHAT IS THAT
RESIDENTIAL THERE.
>> YEAH ONE SEE WE I SAID WE'RE
LOOKING AT THAT SO I THINK
COMMISSIONER WYTCHES ASKING WHY
IF WE'RE GOING TO CREATE
ESSENTIALLY THIS AH ONE SEA
ISLAND THAT'S GOING TO BE
SURROUNDED BY TRANSITION WHY WE
WOULDN'T JUST GO ALL THE WAY UP
TO DOYEL PARK AS TRANSITION.
>> IT DOESN'T FORCE ANY CHANGES
.
IT JUST PERMITS PERMITS IF
THAT'S ALL IT DOES IS IT
PERMITS WITHOUT CREATING A AND
IT'S STILL GOING TO BE ALREADY
IS CONTEXT SENSITIVE SELF
ADJUSTING HEIGHT BLAH BLAH BLAH
IS GOING TO KICK IN AS WELL
GOING TO BUT WHAT IS THAT RIGHT
THERE THE IT'S NORTH OF THE
BRAIN ANSWERS SO SO IS IT THE
BREAK UP.
>> OH NO NO NO WE'RE NOT
CONSIDERING IT WE'RE WE'RE
VOTING ON WHAT COMMISSIONER AND
MILLS PROPOSED SO WE'RE READY
FOR A VOTE MANAGER KELLY.
>> OH, ON A MOTION TO CHANGE
THE AH THREE AREA AND SLIDE
NINE WHERE UNIVERSITY TOWN
HOMES ARE LOCATED FROM ELSWORTH
TO NINETY FOUR AS TRANSITION
COMMISSIONER WISCH YES.
COMMISSIONER HAMMERSCHMIDT YES.
COMMISSIONER ABRAM'S YES
COMMISSIONER COUNCILMAN BRITISH
I THINK SO THIS WE ARE NOT
VOTING RIGHT NOW ON ANYTHING
THAT INCLUDES THE COMMUNITY WE
ARE OUT OF OUR CITY TOWNHOUSES
OK SO IS THAT A YES THAT I'M
SORRY THAT IS YES MILLS YES
WEATHERBEE YES.
ADAMS YES.
NORTON YES IT CARRIES SO WE
HAVE THE OTHER AR3 DO WE WANT
TO DISCUSS THAT OR WE WANT TO
LEAVE AS I'M NOT MAKING A
MOTION SO SO WE'RE COMING BACK
TO IT.
YES I WAS PROPOSED TO LEAVE IT
AS IS BUT SURE WE CAN GO BACK
TO YEAH LET'S MOVE IS WAS THAT
NUMBER TEN.
NO THAT WAS NINE B OH THERE'S A
B THE NORTHERN PART THREE.
>> YEAH COLONIAL SQUARE SO
WE'RE LEAVING AND WE'RE MOVING
TO PAGE TEN.
YES.
BECAUSE NO ONE MADE A MOTION
THROUGH I WOULD LIKE TO MAKE A
MOTION THAT THESE TWO AREAS
CURRENTLY ZONED ARE FOR B AND
ARE FOR A WHICH CONTAIN ARBER
VILLAGE APARTMENTS AND NATURE
COVE CONDOS THAT ARE CURRENTLY
ADJACENT TO TAKE ONE BE
DESIGNATED TRANSITION IN THE
FUTURE LAND USE MAP CERCA AND I
WOULD ASSESS EVERYBODY TO PUT A
PIN IN THIS IMAGE BECAUSE I
MADE ONE OF MY EDITS THAT WE'RE
GOING TO TALK ABOUT A LITTLE
BIT ABOUT TURNING THAT
TRANSITION.
>> LET'S NOT TAKE ONE IN THE
HUB SO JUST THINK ABOUT THAT
WHEN I THOUGHT ABOUT IT RIGHT
NOW.
BUT SINCE WE'RE LOOKING AT THE
SINCE WE'RE LOOKING AT IT
PREPARE YOURSELVES PEOPLE.
>> YEAH, OK.
>> OK SO DOES THAT MEAN WE'RE
NOT GOING TO CONSIDER THE VOTE?
>> NO I SECONDED
THE MOTION SO
WE CAN VOTE.
YEAH OK.
IS THERE A DISCUSSION I'M STILL
TRYING TO FIND FOR THIS THIS
GRAIN TRADER JOE'S COLONIAL'S
WORK.
>> NO OH WAIT WE'RE NOT A NINE
NOR TEN WE TABLE COLONIAL WE'RE
ON TEN WE'RE BEHIND TRADER
JOE'S.
>> OH YEAH YEAH.
>> SO I MEAN A LOWER ONE
OF THESE JAKOV CONDOS IS
ALREADY FOUR STORIES THREE
THREE OVER THE GARAGE AND OUR
FOUR B PARCELS ARE PRIVILEGED
APARTMENTS CURRENTLY BUILT TO
BE TWO STORIES BUT ZONED OUT
FOR THE MANAGER KELLY WE'RE
READY FOR A VOTE OK MOTION TO
CHANGE THE FOR B AREA AND YOUR
TRADER JOE'S ADJACENT TO TWO ON
TO TRANSITION IN THE FUTURE
LAND USE MAP I'M SORRY YOU JUST
THE R FOR B OK JUST THIS IS WHY
I REPEAT IT AFTER FOR A TWO
ABOUT MOTION WAS FOR BOTH OUR
FOR B AND AFTER A OK CHANGE ARE
FOR B AND R FOR A AREAS OK
COMMISSIONER YES HAMMERSCHMIDT
YES APRON'S YES THIS YES YES
YES OK I MEAN SMELLS GUESS
WHETHER IT BE YES ATOM'S YES
NORTON YES THAT CARRIES THANK
YOU
.
>> OK ELEVEN UM I THINK THIS
WAS WHEN I ASKED FOR THE
ORDINARY GARDENS.
>> YEAH THIS IS THE END I THINK
THE WAY THAT I PHRASE THIS AND
RECLASS SO IN MY EDITS I SAID
RECLASSIFY THE AREA ON S
INDUSTRIA STIMPSON TO PASS TO
ASTORE FROM RESIDENTIAL
TRANSITION CAPTURE WERE VERY
GARDENS AND AND THAT THEORY IN
S INDUSTRIAL THAT'S CURRENTLY
ZONED RESIDENTIAL THAT'S WHERE
I LIKE ROLL AND ROLL AND SOME
OTHER THINGS ARE IT'S ALSO M1
ON THE EAST SIDE OF S
INDUSTRIAL FOR A CHUNK.
YEAH IT IT SHOULD CARRY.
I'M TRYING TO THINK ABOUT HOW I
WOULD COLOR IT IN UM IT'S IT'S
ALL THE R FOUR STUFF PLUS THE M
ONE ALONG S INDUSTRIAL AND THEN
LIKE SHADING IT ALONG THE TRAIN
TRACKS LIKE I GUESS I ALMOST
NEED MICROSOFT PAINT BUT IT'S A
IT'S A INCONGRUENCE BETWEEN THE
TRANSITION THAT RUNS ALONG
PACARD SORRY STADIUM AND THEN S
INDUSTRIAL THAT WE JUST NEED TO
CARRY OVER AND COVER WOULD
REGARD AS WORTH I REALIZE
THAT'S RELATIVELY PRECISE
DIRECTION BUT I'M NOT SURE HOW
TO MAKE IT MORE PRECISE WHAT
YOU CAN YOU CAN GO TO THERE
THEY'LL GO TO THEIR STATION AND
HIGHLIGHT I THINK YOU COULD SAY
EVERYTHING IN THE VIEW ON THE
RIGHT SOUTH OF THE STADIUM WITH
THE EXCEPTION OF THE PA ONE D
AND AH WELL IT'S OFF THE MAP.
I HAVE TO LOOK AT THE LARGER
MAP WHAT'S NORTH OF WOODBERRY
GARDENS?
IT'S ONE THAT'S ALREADY THAT'S
ALREADY ALL RIGHT.
>> SO JUST WITH THE EXCEPTION
OF THE R ONE D IN THE SOUTH
EASTERN CORNER DOES THAT MAKE
SENSE?
>> YEAH YEAH OK AREAS SOUTH
OF SAY STADIUM WITH THE
EXCEPTION OF OUR ONE DE CHANGE
TO TRANSITION.
YES.
SO WHAT WOULD BE LEFT OH SORRY
I SAID WHAT WOULD BE LEFT TO BE
CLEAR IN IN THAT QUADRANT
BETWEEN STADIUM AND PACARD I'M
IN THE RIGHT PLACE IT'S WHERE
THAT BRENE LIMONENE IS.
>> IT'S NOT REALLY ALIGNED WITH
BEING THE ONE THAT IS
HORIZONTALLY ORIENTED THE PARK
THE LITTLE PARK, THE LITTLE
PARK RIGHT THERE SOUTH OF THERE
WOULD MEAN RESIDENTIAL AND A
LITTLE BIT TO THE WEST TO THE
EAST OF THAT JUST KIND OF GOING
UP TO WHERE YOU'VE GOT THE ROAD
THE CUL DE SAC ROAD WIGGLES
AROUND WHERE THOSE ROADS
DEAD EFFECTIVELY THOSE WOULD
CONTINUE TO BE RESIDENTIAL.
IS THAT WHAT THE PROPOSAL IS?
OK AND EVERYTHING ELSE WOULD BE
BRUSHED YELLOW YELLOW BALL THIS
FOR ME.
THANK YOU.
THANK YOU FOR BEING PART.
>> THIS IS THE TIME OF YEAR
THIS REMAINS YES.
YES.
THIS FOR ME THIS IS ALL COLORED
IN THIS NOTHING IS BEING
PROPOSED HERE.
CORRECT CAPTAIN.
THANK BECAUSE THAT'S TOBERMORY
YOU'VE GOT I GOT IT I WAS THAT
ALREADY SECONDED.
>> IT WAS NO WAIT A MINUTE IF
NOT I'LL SECOND IT SECONDED I
THINK YOU DID A GOOD JOB SO
ABRAHAMSSON MILLS' MOVED IN
SECOND DISCUSSION.
THERE IS NO THING IN THERE SO
THERE'S A WHOLE BUNCH THE PINK
IS WHAT C THREE OK THAT SEEMS
VERY SENSIBLE TO MY MIND.
>> THIS IS ALL THE LOGIC HERE
IS THESE ARE AREAS THAT ARE
DESIGNED FOR HIGHER DENSITY UM
AND THERE CONSIST WITH PUTTING
TRANSITIONAL ON CORRIDORS OR IN
AREAS WOULD BE CORRIDORS.
SO AGAIN WHY DO YOU THINK WAS
IT NOT INCLUDED ORIGINALLY?
>> YOU KNOW BECAUSE IT WAS
FLECK'S OH YEAH.
SO THIS WAS ORIGINALLY WELL
FLEX AND SECONDLY I THINK UM
THAT IF IT BEFORE BEFORE WE
MADE TWEAKS TO WHAT COULD BE IN
RESIDENTIAL YEAH.
YEAH.
SO GIVEN ALL THE OTHER FACTORS
IT'S WONDERFUL FOR IT TO BE A
TRANSITION OR YEAH.
KELLY KELLY THAT THE ARMY
RESERVE TRAINING IS PUBLIC LAND
.
ALL RIGHT MANAGER KELLY I THINK
WE'RE READY FOR VOTE.
>> WOULD YOU LIKE TO MOVE TO A
UH OH I'M ALL IN FAVOR.
>> OH SURE.
IF YOU DON'T WANT TO OF COURSE
I'M HAPPY TO DO THAT.
>> LET'S DO A VOICE VOTE ALL
THOSE IN FAVOR SAY AY AY ANY
OPPOSE GREAT.
>> THANK YOU.
I WAS HAPPY TO DO IT.
I THOUGHT YOU WANTED THESE TO
BE ROLL CALLS.
>> IF IT'S NOT CLEAR ON THE
FIRST ROLL CALL WE CAN THE
FIRST VOICE VOTE WE CAN MOVE TO
ROLL CALL YOUR VOICE VOTES ARE
EASY OK SO THIS IS THE CORNER
OF MAIN AND STADIUM UM THIS
GOES TO OUR GOAL DISCUSSION ALL
THE GOLF COURSES IN THE FUTURE
LAND USE SMITH ARE GREEN THIS
ONE I THINK MANY PEOPLE HAVE
ASKED WHY ISN'T IT LIGHT BLUE
BECAUSE IT'S U OF M PROPERTY I
LOOKED INTO THIS A LITTLE BIT.
>> IT IS A PUBLIC GOLF COURSE.
THEY I BELIEVE YOU HAVE YOU CAN
HAVE THEM LIKE THEY DO A DUAL
LIKE YOU CAN HAVE A MEMBERSHIP
IF YOU ARE AFFILIATED WITH THE
UNIVERSITY BUT I THINK YOU CAN
ALSO ARE YOU TALKING YOU OF M
GOLF COURSE OR GOLF AND OUTING
AND OTHER GOLFING OUTING WHICH
IS PRIVATE GOLF AND I WAS PART
OF THE UNIVERSITY.
>> OH OK SCREEN SCREAMO IT'S A
SMALL GOLF COURSE SURROUNDED BY
THE UNIVERSITY GOLF COURSE.
OH I SEE SECRETLY HELP.
OK SO THIS ONE WOULD WE WANT TO
MOVE TO BLU SO THAT IT FALLS
UNDER THE U OF M CATEGORY.
>> IT'S NOT UVA.
OH OK.
>> I KNOW CLIFF I'M PRETTY SURE
IT'S A IT'S A PRIVATELY HELD
GOLF COURSE INSIDE THE
UNIVERSITY GOLF COURSE AREA.
>> I HAD NO IDEA THE WHOLE
SQUARE OR IS IT JUST THE LITTLE
GROUND PART.
>> I THOUGHT IT WAS JUST THE
PART COMING UP TO JARBOE WHICH
WHICH IS THE PRIVATE COURSE.
>> YEAH IT'S THIS CHUNK RIGHT.
IT'S SO IT'S THE WHOLE THING
THE ONE ZONDAY TAG.
>> YEAH THE ONE CURRENTLY ZONED
AND YES OKAY YEAH.
SO WHAT WOULD WE WEAR WHERE
WOULD IT GO IN THE FUTURE AND
THEN OH MY GOSH WE DON'T HAVE
ANY OF IT'S NOT CATEGORY THE
CITIES IT'S NOT THE
UNIVERSITIES SO WE NEED TO WE
NEED TO HAVE IT WE NEED TO CALL
IT RESIDENTIAL TRANSITION OR
HUB AND IT'S ADJACENT TO YOU
SEE THIS IS INTERESTING
TRANSITION BECAUSE IT'S PRIVATE
PROPERTY THAT'S RECREATIONAL.
IT'S LIKE A GO CART.
>> SO IT'S NOT YEAH.
SO WHITMONT WOULDN'T THIS BE
TRANSITION OR HUB I MEAN
BUSINESS ADJACENCY TO CAMPUS
AND OTHER TRANSITION AND ALONG
THE COURT TO CORRIDOR'S
TRANSITION MAKES SENSE.
>> SO TRANSITION NOT HUB.
OH IT IS NOT UNLIKE RUBBLE AND
ROLL I MEAN YEAH I THINK I
THINK THAT'S WHAT WE ARE
PROCESSING AND SO IT SHOULD BE
TRANSITION I THINK IT'S
TRANSITION THAT HOW I MAKE A
MOTION.
>> SO THE DISTINCTION SORRY THE
DISTINCTION THAT WE'RE MAKING
IS OWNERSHIP RIGHT BECAUSE
THERE ARE OTHER GOLF COURSES
ARE PUBLICLY OWNED AND THOSE
ARE GREEN.
YES THIS IS PRIVATE.
IT CAN'T GO ON PUBLIC LAND.
YOU DON'T WANT A DESIGNATED
GREEN BRIGHT GREEN IS PUBLIC
LAND RECREATION RIGHT.
>> IT'S THAT THIS IS PUBLIC
LAND SO THIS IS PRIVATE IS NOT
THIS IS PRIVATE LAND AND IT'S
IT'S PRIVATE RECREATION.
YES.
AND SO WE WANT TO MOVE THIS TO
TRANSITION.
RIGHT BECAUSE THEY CEASE TO BE
A GOLF COURSE THEY COULD SELL
IT AND SO GOLF COURSE I MEAN IT
OR IT COULD STAY FOR THE RECORD
THE GOLF COURSE IN TRANSITION
WOULD ALLOW FOR CONTINUING
FUNCTION AS A GOLF COURSE.
>> YEAH, SURE IT SHOULD.
THAT MEANS THAT WE WOULD MANY
GOLF COURSES IN TRANSITION.
>> HOW DOES THIS GET PERMITTED
TODAY?
>> I DON'T KNOW WHY I DO.
I IT'S AGRICULTURE FOR THE
RECORD IT HAS BEEN THERE FOR A
VERY LONG TIME SO THE ZONING
JUST HASN'T BEEN UPDATED I
SUPPOSE YOU KNOW.
>> YEAH.
SO I THINK YES, IT GOES TO
TRANSITION AND THEN HOW DO WE
NOT DO WE NOT HAVE A PUBLIC
COMMENTS TODAY THAT WE'RE NOT
LOOKING TO GET RID OF GOLF
COURSES BUT WE'RE NOT LOOKING
TO GET PUBLIC GOLF GOLF COURSES
SO WE NEED TO PROBABLY MAKE
SURE THAT I KNOW THERE ARE
OTHER PRIVATE GOLF COURSES IN
THE CITY SO WE SHOULD LOOK AT
HOW THOSE LIKE THE GEORGETOWN
YEAH.
LIKE GEORGETOWN COUNTRY CLUB
AND THERE ARE OTHER PRIVATE
GOLF COURSES IN THE CITY.
>> SO I GUESS WHAT'S AH WHAT'S
THE USE TABLE FOR TO LOOK THIS
UP IS THIS MY PAGES AND LOOK IN
THE UDC I THOUGHT YOU JUST KNEW
IT WOULD BE SO I HAD IT ALL OFF
THE DOME.
>> RIGHT I'LL LOOK IT UP NEVER
MIND KNOWING THAT THIS IS AN
ISSUE BECAUSE A LOT OF PEOPLE
IN THIS COMMUNITY READY TO VOTE
ON THIS TINY BIT BETTER IT
DOESN'T HAVE NO I MEAN I HEAR
YOU.
IS THERE IS THERE AGREEMENT AT
THE TABLE FOR COMMISSIONER
NORTON?
>> HE WANTS TO PEN THIS WITH
THE DIRECTOR.
>> YOU WOULD HAVE TO LOOK AT
WHAT THE OTHER PRIVATE GOLF
COURSES ARE CURRENTLY TREATING
THE OTHER PRIVATE GOLF COURSES
.
I GET THEM LOOKING AT THE IDEA
THAT WE DON'T WANT TO DESIGNATE
PRIVATE LAND AS NECESSARILY
OPEN SPACE.
>> IT IS NOT I MEAN IT'S LIKE
GEORGE YEAH.
AND I DON'T KNOW OR SO I THINK
IN GENERAL I WOULDN'T POINT
THEY SOMETIMES FALL IN
RESIDENTIAL BUT WE CAN CHECK
YEAH.
>> I WOULD LIKE A LITTLE BIT
MORE ANALYSIS ABOUT CHARLOTTE
AND TO BE CONSISTENT.
>> YEAH YEAH I'M NOT SURE I
AGREE WITH CALLING SOMETHING IT
ISN'T PUBLIC LAND I I DON'T
THINK I LIKE LUMPING
RECREATIONAL AND PUBLIC LAND
TOGETHER FOR THINGS THAT ARE
NOT PUBLIC FULLY ACCESSIBLE.
>> OK SO HOW TO TO LIKE TO LET
LET'S STAY LET'S STAY WITH
COMMISSIONER NORTON FOR A
SECOND.
SO COMMISSIONER NORTON IS
PROPOSING WOULD YOU DO THIS AS
A MOTION SO THAT WE CAN GET YOU
A SECOND TO THEN.
>> YEAH IT'S REALLY MORE OF A
REQUEST TO THE STAFF TO GIVE US
SOME MORE INFORMATION ABOUT HOW
WE'RE TREATING PRIVATELY OWNED
RECREATION.
>> OK, SO WE'RE NOT HERE IN THE
CURRENT UDC WELL OVERALL AND
HOW THAT'S GETTING TRANSITION
THEN TO WHAT'S COMING OUT
OF THE FUTURE RIGHT OK, I SEE.
>> YEAH THAT'S THAT'S WHAT I
REALLY WANTED.
WHAT PAGES SO ON PAGE 37 OF THE
UDC IT'S PERMITTED IN THE AG
IT'S A SPECIAL EXCEPTION USE IN
ALL OF THE R FOR R ONE TO OUR
FOUR CATEGORIES.
IT'S A PERMITTED USE.
IT'S IT'S CLASSIFIED AS OUTDOOR
RECREATION FOR ANYBODY WHO'S
LOOKING IT'S PERMITTED USE IN C
TO B AND C THREE IN PUBLIC LAND
AND IT'S ALSO A SPECIAL
EXCEPTION.
>> IT'S IN THE OVERALL SO IS IT
PERMITTED IN RESIDENTIAL IT'S
PERMITTED IN R ONE THROUGH OUR
FOR IT'S A SPECIAL EXCEPTION
USE AN R ONE THROUGH R FOR BUT
WE DON'T HAVE A SPECIAL
EXCEPTION FOR THIS.
>> WHAT DO YOU MEAN I'M ASKING
IT WAS A QUESTION BECAUSE
GENERALLY WE ALSO LIKE CHURCHES
HAVE TO GET A SPECIAL EXCEPTION
AND RESIDENTIAL AND AN OFFICE I
THINK THEY MIGHT BE PERMITTED
DAYCARE CENTERS SO WHEN THE NEW
DAYCARE CENTER CAME THEY HAD TO
GET A SPECIAL EXCEPTION USE
BECAUSE IT WAS IN OUR I THINK
MR MITCHELL SAID THAT YOU DO
HAVE TO GIVE A SPECIAL
EXCEPTION IF IT'S AN R IF IT'S
IN R R ONE THREE OR FOUR
BECAUSE THIS IS THIS IS AN EGG
IT IS A PERMITTED USE AND IT'S
PERMITTED ALREADY PERSONS
PERMITTED IS A PERMITTED USE IN
AG AS WELL AS IN THE C TO BE
AND IN THE C THREE DISTRICTS
AND THE PUBLIC ACTUALLY THIS
CITY IS THIS THE ONE THERE MAY
BE A FEW OTHERS I WOULD IMAGINE
THERE'S VERY FEW PA SO ARE YOU
READING THIS AS OUTDOOR
RECREATION USE WHEN THEY SAY
LIKE OK YEP.
SO WHEN YOU SEARCH GOLF IT SAYS
SO THIS IS NOT RESIDENTIAL DOES
EVERYONE AGREE IT'S JUST YEAH
IT WAS PURCHASED IN NINETEEN
EIGHTY THREE SO I THINK JUST
STAYED IN THAT SAME YEAR.
>> OH AND THERE ARE OTHER GOLF
COURSES IN THE CITY.
>> THERE ARE BUT THERE ARE
TURGEMAN LOOKS LIKE ZONED AND
OTHER BUT THEY ARE NOT ZONED EG
IN THE FUTURE YOU SMITH TOWARDS
SOME GOLF COURSE COURSES GREAT
AS GREEN BUT WHY WOULD WE TREAT
THEM DIFFERENTLY.
>> WHY WOULD YOU MAKE THIS
TRANSITION.
YOU KNOW WE SHOULD BE I THINK
WE SHOULD BUT I DON'T THINK ANY
PRIVATELY HELD PARCEL SHOULD BE
ZONED GREEN BECAUSE GREEN IS IN
THE PUBLIC LAND CATEGORY SHOULD
BE UP BY DEFINITION WHAT GREEN
IS IT PUBLICLY CURRENTLY THE
WAY WE HAVE IT DESIGNATED IN
THE KEY PUBLIC SCHOOLS THE
UNIVERSITY AND PARKS OPEN SPACE
BUT IT IS NOT A PARK IN OPEN
SPACE.
SO IF YOU JUST GO TO THE LEGEND
ON THE FUTURE LAND USE MAP AND
IT CERTAINLY IS NOT PUBLICLY
CORRECT BUT IT'S OPEN SPACE.
>> I MEAN THE GREEN SAID
DOESN'T SAY THAT IT'S PUBLIC.
>> IT JUST SAYS PARKS OPEN
SPACE RECREATION AND IT'S UNDER
THE PUBLIC IF YOU GO TO THE
LEGEND ON THE SO WE CAN CHANGE
THE LEGEND BUT IF YOU GO TO THE
LEGEND OF THE ON THE FUTURE
LAND USE MAP, THERE ARE THREE
KINDS OF PUBLIC ARE YOU
REFERRING TO ONE OH NINE NINE
I'M REFERRING OF IT MEAN THAT
IT'S PUBLIC I'M AFRAID THAT'S
NOT WHAT DROVE TO THAT'S DRAFT
TO OK YEAH I WAS GOING TO SAY
DRAFT TWO DOESN'T HAVE THOSE
SUBHEADINGS PDF WHICH IS
PROVIDED BY MR LENNON LITERALLY
SAYS LAND USE DRAFT TO US IT'S
OK BUT THAT'S ON PAGE ONE.
I JUST AS PARKS OPEN SPACE
RECREATIONAL FACILITIES OK SO
LET'S DO THIS LET'S PEN IT FOR
BASEMENT OK AND THEN WE'LL
FINISH UP THE REST AND THEN
WORK OUR WAY BACK IF WE FEEL
LIKE WE HAVE TIME TONIGHT OR IF
WE WANT TO MOVE IT TO ANOTHER
MEETING IS THAT OK WITH
EVERYONE?
YES OK OK THIRTEEN IS WEST
STADIUM AND PAULINE
INTERSECTION MORE OR LESS THE
AREA AROUND THERE'S CURRENTLY
SEE ONE ALONG THE STADIUM AND
SO I BELIEVE THE SUGGESTION
THAT WE HAVE DOWN ZONE IS THAT
THE HUB SHOULD EXTEND ALL THE
WAY TO MATCH THE ONE IS WHAT
I'M INFERRING THE SUGGESTION IS
I WONDERED WHY THIS IS IS THAT
CLEAR?
>> YEAH YEAH I DON'T AGREE.
>> SO WE HAVE A HUB THAT MORE
OR LESS ALIGNS WITH THIS ONE
BUT SURROUNDING IT WE HAVE
TRANSITION THAT SO WE KIND
OF BROKE T.C. ONE UP INTO HUB
AND TRANSITION AND AGAIN THAT'S
JUST AS IT GETS CLOSER TO OUR
DISTRICTS THAT WE COULD TABOR
HEIGHTS INTENSITY.
BUT THIS WAS CALLED OUT DOWN
ZONING.
>> SO THAT'S WHY WE'RE HERE
BECAUSE THE DENSITY OF THE FOR
RIGHT BECAUSE OF THE TEASING
NOW BECAUSE IT'S CURRENTLY DC
ONE IS NOW TRANSITION AND SAID
OH YEAH YEAH NO BUT IT'S ALSO
ADJUSTING ANYWAY SO SO YEAH SO
IT ISN'T GOING TO INHERIT THE T
ONESELF ADDRESSING AS IT
APPROACHES IT CAN IT'S NOT OK
SO THEN WHAT ARE YOU TALKING
ABOUT.
TRANSITION AND TRANSITION WE'VE
TALKED ABOUT IT S ADJUSTING AND
IT SAYS HI.
YEAH.
SO THAT TRANSITION SURROUNDING
THAT IT WOULD BE IN RELATION TO
THAT.
>> YEAH.
SO WE COULD EXTEND THE HUB ALL
THE WAY THROUGH THE T ONE IF
YOU CHOOSE IS THERE A MOTION AT
I LIVE VERY CLOSE TO HERE SO I
HAVE THAT BY NO EXTRA KNOWLEDGE
BUT I WOULD SAY IT WILL NOT
MAKE A MATERIAL DIFFERENCE
BECAUSE IT'S SO ADJACENT TO OUR
HOME BUT FOR CONSISTENCY SAKE
AS A MATTER OF PRINCIPLE I
THINK IT SHOULD BE UP DC ONE
SHOULD BE UP.
>> ARE YOU MOVING THAT SORRY I
MOVE IT OK IS THERE A SECOND
ALSO IS THERE A DISCUSSION I'M
GOING BACK TO THE LOGIC AGAIN
MAYBE IN THE TABLE OR ALL THE
OTHER ONE DISTRICTS GOING IN
THE HUB MORE OR LESS LIKE THIS
ONE I MEAN THEY ARE THEY ARE
THE BASIS FOR WHAT IS THE
BASIS.
>> SO THIS WOULD MAKE IT MORE
CONSISTENT WITH THE LOGIC
OF THE WAY THE REST OF THE MAP
WAS DONE AND Y EITHER WAY
EITHER WAY IT WAS KIND OF ON
THE ON THE BALL AND THEY JUST
DECIDED NOT TO EXTEND IT ALL
THE WAY DOWN.
I KNOW.
>> ARE OTHER TSUN DISTRICTS
THAT HAVE NOT GONE INTO SOME
PARTS AT TRADER JOE'S.
>> I DON'T KNOW IF I WANT TO BE
CONSISTENT.
THERE'S A PROBLEM SMALL-MINDED
RECORD BUT AT THE SAME TIME THE
MORE WE ARE INCONSISTENT THE
LOGIC IS THE MORE PROBLEMATIC
THIS THIS IS.
SO LET'S GO NEXT WE'RE GOING TO
HAVE SOME CARVE OUTS BUT THIS
ONE DOESN'T MAKE SENSE TO CARVE
TO ME.
>> I'M FINE WITH MOVING ONE ONE
TO YES BUT IT'S FOR
CONSISTENCY.
>> DID SOMEONE MAKE A MOTION?
YES, COMMISSIONER ABRAMS AND
UM, HAMMERSCHMIDT SECONDED
SORRY TO EXTEND THE HUB TO
MATCH THE DC ONE AND THEN
COMMISSIONER NORTON ASKED HIS
QUESTION WITH THE STADIUM BIG
NO NO NO.
>> JUST BECAUSE IT'S NOT AN
EASY ONE NOW.
RIGHT OK.
ALL RIGHT.
I JUST WANT TO BE CLEAR SO YOU
KNOW IN READING THE COMPLAINT
IT'S KIND OF LIKE THERE'S HUB
AND THEN YOU TRANSITION WHICH I
GUESS IS WHAT I THOUGHT
TRANSITION RIGHT FROM HUB TO
SINGLE FAMILY.
THIS IS KIND OF WHAT I WANT TO
RENAME TRANSITION BECAUSE THERE
ARE A LOT OF PLACES HERE WHERE
IT JUST GOES ARE NOT SINGLE
FEMALE I'M SORRY RESIDENTIAL IT
JUST GOES STRAIGHT INTO
RESIDENTIAL.
I'M TRYING TO JUSTIFY IN MY
HEAD LIKE FOLLOWING THE ZONING
WE WOULD LIKE RIGHT NOW IS TO
SEE ONE EXTENDING HUB WE'RE
GOING TO BE BUMPING UP AGAINST
RESIDENTIAL BUT WE DO THAT
EVERYWHERE ALMOST EVERYWHERE.
SO IT'S NOT REAL LIKE THIS IS
YEAH.
I'M JUSTIFYING THIS TO MYSELF
THAT THIS MAKES SENSE BECAUSE
YOU DON'T HAVE TO TRANSITION
DOWN BECAUSE HUB SELF ADJUSTS
BASED ON WHERE IT IS IN
PROXIMITY TO RESIDENTIAL AND
FOR CHANCE TO FOLLOW THE
CURRENT ZONING AND WHAT IT ALSO
DOES THAT IN RELATION TO
TRANSIT.
>> YES, WHICH IS DIFFERENT
THOUGH I THINK IN MY MIND THE
THING THAT'S A LITTLE BIT
DIFFERENT IS THAT I'M THINKING
ABOUT HOBBIES ARE D WANTED TO
WRITE AND THEY WITHIN
THEMSELVES THEY DON'T DO THAT
TRANSITION LIKE THERE'S NOT THE
TRANSITION DAEWON ITSELF.
RIGHT LIKE D IS THE TRANSITION
AND SO I THINK WE NEED TO I
ALSO WENT BACK TO THIS LIKE THE
IDEA THAT IT WOULD BE CONTEXT
SENSITIVE AND THINK ABOUT
TRANSITIONING EVEN WITHIN THAT
HUB IS IMPORTANT.
OTHERWISE I DO THINK THAT WE
NEED TRANSITION.
BUFFERIN HUB BUT I BUT IT
DOESN'T AND IT DOESN'T DO THAT
EVERYWHERE SO IT DOES MAKE THE
ARGUMENT RIGHT.
IT HAS TO BE HAS TO ADJUST THAT
IT HAS TO ADJUST.
SO I THINK THAT THAT MIGHT HAVE
TO LOOK AT SOME OF THESE BUT
IT'S POSSIBLE THAT THERE'S
ALREADY SORT OF A BUFFER
EXISTING AROUND SOME OF THESE
HUBS WHERE TRANSITION ISN'T I
DON'T KNOW I'D HAVE TO LOOK BUT
IN GENERAL THAT'S THAT'S THE
PRACTICE RIGHT?
>> YEAH.
IT'S JUST AROUND HOME WITH
TRANSITION.
I MEAN I WOULD THINK SO BUT I
DON'T SEE THAT ON THIS MAP.
I SEE IT IN ONE SPOT ON THIS
MAP.
WELL SO ALL OF BRIARWOOD OR
EISENHAUER MOST OF WHISKEY ALL
OF DOWNTOWN BASICALLY UM AND
THEN I CAN SEE YOUR POINT HERE
LIKE LIKE NEAR SEVEN BETWEEN
SEVEN AND EIGHT IT DOESN'T
FULLY SURROUND THAT FROM THIS
MAP.
SO I'M KIND OF A I SEE THE HUBS
IS REALLY MORE CONCENTRATED.
THAT'S WHERE THE REALLY MORE
LIKE NEW DOWNTOWN CONCENTRATED
DEVELOPMENT AND A LOT OF THE
TRANSITION ZONES ARE ALONG THE
TRANSIT CORRIDORS.
>> SO THIS IS STRUCTURE IN A
HUB.
IT'S REALLY NOT A HUB ANYMORE.
IT'S BECOMING A TRANSITION
CORRIDOR.
I'M ACTUALLY INCLINED TO NOT
EXTEND THIS BECAUSE OF THE
DISSIPATING THE NOTION
OF CONCENTRATING THE
DEVELOPMENT IN A COHERENT HUB
AREA.
>> BUT THAT'S WHY WE DID TAKE
ONE AS OPPOSED TO STREAMING AT
THAT.
I MEAN I THINK THIS IS THE
PROBLEM.
THERE'S A CONFLICT BETWEEN HUB
AND DC ONE BECAUSE THIS ONE IS
A LONG TRANSIT CORRIDORS AND DC
ONE GOT INCORPORATED INTO HUB
HUB CONNOTES THE DOWNTOWN
CONCENTRATION BUT TO I MEAN WE
ALREADY DID THE TRANSIT
CORRIDORS AND AND THE TRANSIT I
MEAN TRANSITION WHAT THEY DID
WAS TRANSITION CREATED ARTERIAL
FEEDERS TO OFTEN INTO INTO THE
TAXI ONCE SO IT IT PROVIDED
WHERE THERE WASN'T NECESSARILY
MIXED USE OR WASN'T NECESSARILY
DENSE RESIDENTIAL IT EXTENDED
THAT PRINCIPLE SO WE CAN THE
ORANGE IS SERVING TWO DIFFERENT
THINGS.
IT DOES SYMBOLIZE DOWNTOWN BUT
IT ALSO IS TAXI ONE.
I THINK THERE'S A PROBLEM WITH
THE CONCEPT OF WHAT A HUB I
MEAN THE OVERLAY WHAT WE'RE
TRYING TO DO DOESN'T MATCH
ENTIRELY WHAT WE CURRENTLY
HAVE.
WELL, MAYBE IN SOME WAYS IT'S
BECAUSE AT THE LOW END WHERE
THERE'S KIND OF LOWER IN
RESIDENTIAL IT MAYBE COULD BE
TRANSITION BUT I THINK THIS IS
ONE PLACE MORE AT THE HIGHER
END WHERE WHAT WHERE DOES IT
MAKE SENSE TO REALLY
CONCENTRATE DEVELOPMENT IN HUB
AREA?
>> I I FEEL LIKE WE'RE GETTING
SORT OF HUNG UP ON THE
TERMINOLOGY AND SO MAYBE I
DON'T KNOW IF WE NEED TO RENAME
OR SOMETHING BUT BECAUSE IT
SOUNDS LIKE WE MIGHT WANT TO
REVISIT THE NAMES BASED ON HOW
WE'RE APPLYING THE LAND YOU CAN
ASK THE COMMISSIONER OR ARE YOU
ARE YOU SAYING THAT LIKE THESE
OTHER HUB DESIGNATIONS ARE LIKE
THEY'RE NOT CONCENTRATED THERE?
>> SOME OF THEM LOOK EVEN
BIGGER THAN OUR DOWNTOWN AND SO
IT'S DILUTING THE EFFECT OF A
HUB.
YEAH, I MEAN I'M KIND OF IT'S
GETTING LATE AND I'M OFF THE
CUFF A LITTLE BIT HERE.
THAT HELPS IF YOU LOOK IF YOU
KIND OF STEP BACK AND LOOK AT
THE HOLISTIC MAP, THE HUBS ARE
NODES.
THEY'RE REALLY FOCAL AREAS
WHERE I WOULD EXPECT TO SEE
MORE HIGH HIGHER DENSITY MIXED
USE KINDS OF DEVELOPMENT AND
THE TRANSITION CORRIDORS ARE
CONNECTING THE CONNECTING
TISSUES AND FOLLOWING CORRIDORS
AND SO THIS IS WHY I'M SAYING
THAT.
BUT THEY DON'T REALLY LINE UP
NECESSARILY STRICTLY WITH AT
LEAST ONE CORRIDORS EVEN THOUGH
I RECOGNIZE ONE QUARTER AS WAS
ONE OF THE FACTORS THAT WOULD
LEAD TO A HUB DESIGNATION.
RIGHT.
I MEAN I JUST I THINK WE'RE
SAYING THE SAME THING SO WE
ZONE WE SPENT TWO YEARS ZONING
IN THE T7 CORRIDORS BEFORE THE
PLAN AND THEN THE PLAN WANTED
TO REFLECT THE T7 CORRIDORS
PLUS POSSIBLY THE ENLARGEMENT
OF DOWNTOWN AND IT GAVE ALL
THOSE THE SAME COLOR AND CALLED
THEM HUB AND IT MAY NOT AND
THEN IT ADDED THIS THING WHICH
I THINK IS INNOVATIVE WHICH WAS
THAT THE TRANSITION ALONG
ARTERIALS WHICH IS DIFFERENT
THAN TRANSITION IN THE WAYS WE
WERE TRYING TO TALK ABOUT IT
BEFORE BUT SO THAT'S GOOD.
I MEAN THAT'S A GOOD REASON TO
DO TO FOLLOW THE NOTION AND
EXTEND THE HUB HERE WHICH I
AGREE.
I THINK IT WILL NOT CHANGE
ANYTHING BECAUSE YOU WON'T GET
ANYTHING TALLER THAN WHATEVER
IT IS TRANSITION IS WHICH WE
DON'T KNOW BUT BECAUSE THAT'S A
VERY TINY AND IT'S HEMMED IN BY
OUR ONE.
>> SO GO AHEAD COMMISSIONER
MILLS.
SO LONG SO YOU WON'T GET
ANYTHING DIFFERENT SO LONG AS
HUBB DOES DO THE STEP X.
>> YES, THAT'S WHEN YOU WOULD
GET SOMETHING DIFFERENT IS IF
YOU CHOOSE THAT HUB IS NOT SO
BUT I THINK THAT WE DO HAVE
LANGUAGE IN HERE THAT SUGGEST
YES.
BUT I MEAN BUT I THINK IF WE
BECAUSE IT ALSO INCLUDES
DOWNTOWN WHICH DOESN'T
CURRENTLY WE CAN'T WE HAVE WILL
BE VERY THIS IS SOMETHING THAT
WILL WILL COME BACK WHEN WE
THINK ABOUT HOW WE DO ALL
OF HOW WE DO THE ZONING RIGHT.
RIGHT.
EXCEPT IF WE'RE WELL THAT'S AN
ARGUMENT FOR NOT DOING THIS
BECAUSE IF A HUB IS NOT CLEARLY
STEPPED BACK TO MAKE THIS HUB
IS GOING TO FREAK PEOPLE OUT SO
IT SHOULD PROBABLY STAY THE WAY
IT IS.
IT SHOULD STAY TRANSITION.
OK, SO IT'S CONVOKE WE CAN YEAH
WE CAN.
>> COMMISSIONER ADAMS CALLED
THE QUESTION SO THE JUST THAT
WOULD BE SO LONG AS THE HUB IS
ALSO SALVATIERRA RIGHT.
>> YES, YES YES BUT BUT I THINK
COMMISSIONER MILLS BRINGS A
GOOD POINT WHICH IS WE WANT TO
PRESERVE THE DOWNTOWN CORE IN
THE HUB AND WE WANT TO BE
BECAUSE CURRENTLY D ONE AND TWO
DOES NOT SELL FOR JUST IT JUST
IS AND IF IT'S MOVING INTO A
HUB THEN THE HUB CARRIES WITH
ITSELF ADJUSTMENTS THAT COULD
HAVE AN UNINTENDED CONSEQUENCE
.
>> IT'S IN THE AREAS WHERE WE
WANT THE ABSOLUTE HIGHEST
POSSIBLE DENSITY LIKE THIRTY
STOREYS.
>> THAT'S WHAT I'M COMING TO
PRESENT TO YOU AT SOME POINT
NOW YOU HAVE TO IF I MEAN THIS
IS WHERE YOU GET MULTIPLE HUBS,
RIGHT?
LIKE YOU SAID SUGGESTING HUBS
AND NOT SELF ADJUSTING HUBS AND
THAT X Y OK, SO THE QUESTION
HAS BEEN OK SO MAYBE WE SHOULD
DO A ROLL CALL FOR THIS ONE.
>> UM I ACTUALLY THINK WE CAN
DO A VOICE VOTE.
>> LET'S HEAR IT ALL THOSE OK.
>> YES SURE.
>> MANAGER KELLY UH MOVE IN
SECOND AND HAMMERSCHMIDT TO
DESIGNATE AREA AND SLIDE 13 TO
EXTEND HUB DESIGNATION TO AREA
CURRENTLY C ONE SELLING ALL
RIGHT ALL THOSE IN FAVOR VOTE I
I ANY OPPOSED.
>> NO NO NO WE HAVE TWO O'S THE
AYES HAVE IT SO I COUNTED SIX
TO TWO.
OH THIS SMELLS YEAH.
IS EVERYONE ELSE.
UH YES IT WAS MILLS AND DISH.
NO I MEAN I HEARD NORTON SAY
YES OR NO BECAUSE WELL WE TOOK
THE VOTE SO THAT'S SO UNLESS I
GO IN THIS PLACE BUT WHAT IS
REALLY BECOMING CLEAR IS THE
DOWNTOWN IF THAT'S REALLY
DIFFERENT THEN SHOULDN'T BE
LUMPED IN WITH ALL OF THE OTHER
HUBS.
>> I THINK THAT IS NOTAT YEAH.
YEAH.
>> SO THIS IS CALLING THE
QUESTION AND WHAT ARE WE DOING
WITH THE DOWNTOWN AND DOWNTOWN
HAVE THE SUPPORT FROM THE REST
OF THE HOUSE?
WELL I GUESS STUPID QUESTION
OF WHAT IS THE HUB IS THE HUB
DOWNTOWN THEN WE HAVE TRANSIT
CORRIDORS.
I MEAN SO MY UNDERSTANDING AND
VOTING YES FOR THIS WAS THE
HUBS INCLUDE TRANSIT, THE
TAPERING TRANSITION LANGUAGE.
>> IT DOES IT DOES TRANSITION
TO TRANSITION.
DON'T
WANT TO GO BACK AND THIS
IS WHY I'M CONFUSED NOW.
BUT THAT'S A ZONING QUESTION.
IT IS A QUESTION WE HAVE TO
LIKE IF DUQUAN IS GENERALLY
HIGHER AND I CAN'T FIND A
REASON TO TAKE THIS ONE AND
MAKE IT DIFFERENT THEN I'M
CALLING IT AND WE'LL TACKLE
WHAT HUBBIES?
WELL, JUST TO BE CLEAR, THERE
ARE ONLY TWO PLACES WHERE
CURRENTLY CURRENT ONE IS NOT
HUB.
IT'S THIS SMALL AREA, THE AREA
THAT COMMISSIONER ADAMS WOULD
LIKE US TO DISCUSS IN A MINUTE
.
WE'RE WATCHING ON STADIUM
CONVERGE EVERY OTHER ONE MOST
OF IT AND A LITTLE BIT OF IT.
BUT MOST OF PLIMOTH TRANSLATED
YEP.
>> THE HUB IT'S NOT WE'RE WE'RE
BEING INCONSISTENT ONLY A
LITTLE BIT.
SO I WOULD I WOULD ARGUE THAT
WE SHOULD BE CONSISTENT.
>> WELL, IT'S JUST ATC ONE IS
HUB WHICH IS WHAT I'VE ALWAYS
THOUGHT IT WAS THEN HUB IS
TAPERING.
>> YEAH RIGHT.
BUT NOW WE'RE HEARING THAT
MAYBE CAN'T BE TAPERING IN
DOWNTOWN AND THIS IS JUST I
MEAN WE CAN WE CAN BANDIED
AROUND HERE BUT IF THERE IS A
DOUBT IN THE PUBLIC'S MIND NO I
THINK YOUR YOUR POINT ABOUT
CLARITY IS OK NOTE IT I I THINK
IT'S IMPORTANT FOR US TO BE
CLEAR AND AS WE CONTINUE OUR
JOURNEY WE'LL NEED TO MAKE
CLARIFICATION SO THAT PEOPLE
UNDERSTAND THAT THIS HUB AND
THIS HUB WHILE THEY SHARE THE
SAME NAME THEY BEHAVE
DIFFERENTLY BASED ON WHERE THEY
ARE THAT WILL BE OVER FLIGHT
DISTANCE DOESN'T MEAN THAT
WE'RE GOING TO COPY AND PASTE D
ONE AND TWO AND EXACTLY TO THE
OTHER.
>> BUT I THINK THAT'S BECAUSE
HUB FOR A LOT OF PEOPLE IS
ABOUT HEIGHT AND EXTREME
DENSITY FOR THEM THAT'S THEY'RE
THEY'RE BRINGING THAT OVER
COMMISSIONER DISHES RIGHT TO
SAY WE CAN DECLARE YOUR RIGHT
LIKE IT'S GOING TO BE
CONFUSING.
I THINK IN PRACTICE THIS DOES
NOT MEAN THAT WE HAVE TO JUST
LIKE WE'VE BEEN SAYING WITH
TRANSITION THERE MIGHT BE
MULTIPLE DISTRICTS WITHIN THAT
POTENTIALLY WITHIN RESIDENTIAL
COULD AS WELL.
>> YEAH, PART OF WHAT'S TAKING
PLACE ARE WE TO 34 SO WE'RE
GOING TO ONE OK SO ON SLIDE 14
WE'RE LOOKING AT THIS STRETCH
HERE BETWEEN LIBERTY AND HURON
THAT'S ZONED CURRENTLY OUT FOR
A THROUGH OR FOR C AND IT
EXTENDS THROUGH LIKE AN R1 ARE
ONE C AREA.
>> SO I BELIEVE FOR THAT REASON
IT WAS PROBABLY LEFT AS
RESIDENTIAL O SO THIS INCLUDES
HILLSIDE TERRACE SENIOR LIVING
AND THE MANCHESTER WEST
APARTMENTS WHICH IS A TWO TO
THREE STORY OUT OF ALL THE ONES
THAT WE'VE SEEN THIS IS THE ONE
THAT BOTHERS ME THE MOST AND
THE LOW RISE RESIDENTIAL LIMITS
LIKE THIS BECAUSE I DON'T WANT
TO CALL THAT TRANSITION AND I
DON'T LIKE RECOMMENDING IT
LOWER THAN IT IS.
IT JUST.
LET'S MOVE ON TO SLIDE FIFTEEN
AND THEN WE'LL COME BACK TO
THIS.
>> DO YOU THIS EVENING I WAS
HOPING OK, I'M SORRY IS TEEN IS
I'M SORRY BECAUSE I MEAN
OTHERWISE WE HAVE TO CALL IT
TRANSITION AND THEN WE NEED TO
VOTE ON THAT SO 15 IS ARBER
LANDING APARTMENTS TWO STORIES
.
THIS ONE IS IT LOOKS LIKE IT'S
ADJACENT TO THE OTHER
TRANSITION ZONE BUT YOU'RE
ACTUALLY ON THE OTHER SIDE
OF NINETY FOUR SO IT'S THIS
FUNNY NOT FUNNY BUT IT'S THIS
ISLAND KIND OF BETWEEN FOURTEEN
AND NINETY FOUR ACCESSED OFF
OF DEXTER ROAD TO THE NORTH
THAT NEIGHBORHOOD.
SO I THINK THAT THAT'S PROBABLY
THE LOGIC OF WHY IT'S NOT
TRANSASIA.
IT'S A LITTLE IT'S A IT'S A TWO
STORY.
WHAT DO YOU CALL THAT LIKE IT'S
A LITTLE NEIGHBORHOOD A TWO
STORY APARTMENT COMPLEX THIS IS
NEIGHBORHOOD CENTER.
>> IT'S A LITTLE NEIGHBORHOOD
BECAUSE THESE ARE ALL
NEIGHBORHOODS, NOT
NEIGHBORHOOD.
I JUST MEAN LIKE IT DOESN'T
HAVE ANY CONNECTIVITY JUST BY A
SINGULAR DEMAND.
IT'S ACCESS BY SINGULAR ROAD
OFF OF DEXTER.
>> YEAH.
YEAH.
DO WE HAVE A MOTION
I MEAN TO
LEAVE IT AS IT IS.
>> NO TO CHANGE IT I THINK
THAT'S WHY IT'S BEING PRESENTED
ART GREAT.
>> SO IT WILL STAY JUST STAY
BUT FLAGGER BECAUSE OUR WORRY
IS WHAT IS THAT SO YOU MEAN
WHAT DO YOU MEAN WE'RE JUST I
AT IT FORTY FIVE I'M SORRY I
WAS ASKING HOLD ON LET ME JUST
LOOK IN THE ZONING MAP FOR THIS
.
I ACTUALLY HAVE THIS AS A
SEPARATE TABLE
SO WHAT'S THE
WHAT'S THE PER UNIT PER ACRE.
WHAT'S UNIT COUNT MANAGER KELLY
FOR OUR FORAY JUST TALKING
ABOUT HOW IT'S THAT KIND
OF NIGHT WE FILL IN THE BLANK
AND I'M STARING AT MICHELLE I'M
SORRY.
>> UM, I REALLY I'M BACK I'M
HERE.
>> I WAS JUST TRYING TO
UNDERSTAND WHAT THIS WHERE
WHERE IN MY TABLE I WOULD FIND
AFTER A IN THE UDC.
>> HOW ARE YOU WONDERING WSS
YEAH I'M TRYING TO SEE WHAT THE
DENSITY IS FOR RIGHT NOW.
>> FORTY THREE HUNDRED SQUARE
FOOT MINIMUM LOT AREA BUT
WHAT'S THE HEIGHT LIMIT OF 30
FEET.
NO SORRY I'M SORRY.
>> THIRTY FIVE FEET FORTY FIVE
FEET OF OVER YEAH.
SO THIS IS THE THIS IS ANOTHER
FORCED BECAUSE OF THE CAP THE
HEIGHT WOULD BE LIMITED LOWER
YEAH.
>> SO CAP IS FOR OUR ONE IN OUR
TWO RIGHT.
>> NO NO NO WE CAN'T BUT WE CAN
STILL YOU ARE CORRECT THE
GUIDANCE FROM COUNCIL WAS TO
KEEP OUR ONE OR TWO AT THREE
STORIES HOWEVER TO ZONE THIS WE
HAVE TO CURRENTLY IN THE LAND
USE MAP DESIGNATION WE HAVE
THREE DISTRICTS WE HAVE
RESIDENTIAL WHICH HAS BEEN
CAPPED AT THREE STORIES WE HAVE
TRANSITIONED AND HUB SO WE
CAN'T PUT IT INTO RESIDENTIAL
BECAUSE THAT WITH DOWN ZONE IT
WE CAN PROBABLY GET INTO
TRANSITION WOULD NOT DOESN'T
FEEL APPROPRIATE SO WE'RE IN
YEAH I I LET ME STOP SPEAKING
IN THE ROYAL WE I AM CONFLICTED
THAT'S WHERE I WAS.
>> I GUESS I'M WONDERING IF WE
CAN LEAVE THINGS AS RESIDENTIAL
WITH THE UNDERSTANDING THAT OUR
ONE OR TWO ARE CAPPED BUT THAT
JUST LIKE THE OTHER DISTRICT
LAND USE CATEGORIES WE'VE BEEN
TALKING OUT THERE COULD BE
MULTIPLE DISTRICTS WITHIN
RESIDENTIAL SO YOU'RE SAYING I
COULD GET A FIVE STOREY
RESIDENTIAL BUT I'M NOT MAD
RIGHT FOR RESIDENTIAL CARE I
MEAN THE SIX RESIDENTIAL BUT
THE WHOLE POINT OF THE CABIN
WAS WAS TO GIVE WAS TO GIVE
SINGLE FAMILY HOME OWNERS
CONFIDENCE THAT THE HEIGHT
WASN'T GOING TO GO UP SO WE'RE
GOING TO BE VERY CLEAR WHEN WE
SAY THESE AREAS ARE LOW RISE
RESIDENTIAL.
>> THEY'RE NOT SUPPOSED TO GO
OVER CERTAIN BUT THESE ARE
ALREADY SO REMOTE I GET IT.
I DON'T LIKE IT BUT THIS IS
WHERE WE ARE I DON'T KNOW SOME
OF THESE I DON'T FEEL
COMFORTABLE MAKING TRANSITION.
IT DOESN'T FEEL APPROPRIATE.
THE TRANSITION IS THE I'M SORRY
I'M NOT TRYING TO RECOGNIZE THE
LOWER HEIGHT THAN THEY ARE.
>> RIGHT.
WELL, THESE ARE ONLY TWO
STORIES AREN'T THEY CORRECT
CURRENTLY.
>> BUT THAT'S NOT WHAT IS
PERMITTED.
>> RIGHT.
SO WHAT'S ALLOWABLE IS UP TO
FOUR FEET.
YEP.
AND I THINK THAT THAT'S THE
GUIDANCE IS WHAT'S ALREADY
LIABLE BECAUSE JUST BECAUSE
OF WHAT'S BUILT THERE DOESN'T
MEAN IT'S GOING TO STAY THERE
BECAUSE THIS IS A FORTY FIFTY
YEAR MAP.
>> THIS IS NOT A TWENTY FIVE
YEAR YES.
>> TWENTY FIVE OH SORRY.
TWENTY FIFTY LET'S COME COME
BACK.
>> CAN WE PUT THIS IN THE
BUCKET TO COME BACK BECAUSE YES
IT HAS TO BE AND WE CAN GO TO
SIXTEEN AND THEN WE HAVE LIKE
SEVEN THINGS WE HAVE TO COME
BACK TO BUT YES I ALSO HAVE
LIKE FIVE OTHER AREAS TO ADD
IN.
>> MR ADAMS HAS HIS STADIUM
WATCHERS.
CAN I SOMETHING SO LOW RISE
RESIDENTIAL WAS ALWAYS ONLY AH
ONE OR TWO.
>> WELL I THOUGHT THE INTENTION
OF THAT WAS LIKE COMMISSIONER
ADAMS SAID TO ASSUAGE ANY FEARS
OR CONCERNS THAT AH ONE OR TWO
LIKE SINGLE FAMILY HOMEOWNERS
HAD BUT SO I KNOW THAT IT IS
SAID AS RESIDENTIAL ALL
OF RESIDENTIAL IS CAPPED BUT
I'M JUST WONDERING IF THAT'S
THE INTENT BEHIND BECAUSE
PREVIOUSLY WE COULD HAVE LEFT
ALL THE RS SO AH ONE TWO THREE
AND FOUR INSIDE LOW RISE
RESIDENTIAL BUT WITH THE CAP WE
HAVE TO MOVE THEM EXCEPT LOW
RISE RESIDENTIAL INITIAL I
THOUGHT WAS MORE THAN AH ONE IN
OUR TWO.
I DIDN'T THINK IT WAS ALL
OF THE RS BECAUSE OUR THREE AND
FOUR THERE'S A QUESTION WHERE
THAT BREAKS THERE'S A
MISCOMMUNICATION HERE I THINK I
THINK WHAT MICHELLE IS SAYING
IS THAT THE MOST IMPORTANT
THING IN THE CITY COUNCIL
DIRECTION WAS TO REASSURE
PEOPLE CURRENTLY LIVING IN R
ONE AND R TO >> DISTRICTS THAT
THERE WOULD BE A CAP THERE NOT
TO REASSURE PEOPLE WHO ARE
CURRENTLY LIVING IN R FOR THAT
THERE WILL BE A CAP SO THERE IS
THE POSSIBILITY MICHELLE IS
PUTTING ON THE TABLE THAT WHEN
WE GO TO ACTUALLY REWRITE THE
CODE AND REZONE THERE COULD BE
TWO RESIDENTIAL OR MORE THAN
ONE RESIDENTIAL DISTRICT ONE
WHICH HAS THREE STOREY LIMIT
AND ONE THAT IS NOT THAT'S
HIGHER FOR THINGS WERE ARE FOR
BETTER AND RESIDENT FOR THIS
TYPE OF EXAMPLE RIGHT.
WE'RE WE'RE NOT SURE WHERE TO
PUT IT BECAUSE IT DOESN'T FIT
INTO OUR THAT I TOTALLY GET AND
I THINK THE PROBLEM
CATEGORIES
ARE THREE AND THAT WAS NOT THAT
WAS SOMETHING THAT I DIDN'T
KNOW WASN'T IN LOW RISE.
>> SO BUT I GUESS IT DOESN'T
MATTER.
>> I MEAN I KNOW LOW RISES
GONE, LOW RISE IS GONE.
WE DON'T CALL IT THAT ANYMORE.
>> IT'S RESIDENTIAL.
YEAH, NO I MEAN I REALIZE THAT
THE RESULT OF THIS INSTRUCTION
WAS THAT MORE WOULD END UP IN
TRANSITION AND THAT WE WOULD
END UP IN THIS LIKE OH SHOOT I
DON'T WANT TO DO THIS BUT AND I
THINK IT'S GOING TO BE THERE
WILL BE A GREAT DEAL OF ANXIETY
UNLESS WE ARE ABLE TO CLARIFY
THE TERMS OF TRANSITION BETTER.
>> COULD THERE BE A AS PART
OF THE COUNCIL DISCUSSION
AROUND THE DIRECTION OF A
DIRECTION TO ALLOW US TO
INCLUDE IN THE LANGUAGE AROUND
RESIDENTIAL THAT IF THE PARCEL
IS CURRENTLY ZONED R R THREE OR
FOUR THAT THAT CAN MEAN A
HIGHER HEIGHT THAT IS
SUPPOSEDLY THIS WHEN I RAN THIS
BY IN OUR DISCUSSION THIS
REMEMBER THIS DOESN'T CAP AT
TRIPLEX IT SAYS TRIPLER UP TO
TRIPLER IS BY RIGHT AND HIGHER
OR GREATER HOUSING
OPPORTUNITIES OR WHAT SOME
PEOPLE CALL HIGHER DENSITY ARE
APPLIED IS CAPPED YEAH BUT YEAH
YEAH.
THIRTY IN OUR TENSION THREE
STORIES PUDI THE CORRECTION I
THOUGHT WE CALL FIVE OF THE
COUNCIL REQUEST WAS THAT
ANYTHING THAT STAYS IN THE
RESIDENTIAL DISTRICT IS CAPPED
AT THREE STOREYS WHICH IS WHAT
WE EXECUTE IT WE'RE SORT
OF STUCK WITH THESE PARCELS
THAT DON'T MAKE SENSE FOR
TRANSITION THAT I'D LIKE TO
KEEP IN RESIDENTIAL BUT I'M
RECOMMENDING A LOWER HEIGHT FOR
THEM THAN THEY CURRENTLY ARE
ZONE FOUR WHICH IS A PROBLEM.
SO IF I GOT A COUNCIL
RESOLUTION THAT SAID IF THE
PARCEL IS CURRENTLY ZONED OUT
THREE OR FOUR THEN YOU CAN GO
HIGHER THEN I COULD DO THAT.
BUT RIGHT NOW MY RESIDENTIAL
DISTRICT SAYS IT'S GOT TO BE
THREE STORIES BECAUSE THAT'S
WHAT COUNCIL ASKED ME TO DO AND
WE DID IT.
BUT THAT'S PUT PRESSURE ON OUR
TRANSITION DISTRICT TO GOBBLE
UP SOME PLACES THAT DON'T MAKE
SENSE.
>> SO TO RESOLVE THAT TENSION I
NEED PERMISSION TO GO TO DO
SOMETHING DIFFERENT FOR
RESIDENTIAL FOR THE BASED ON
CURRENT ZONING WE CAN WE ARE
ONE OF OUR TWO STUFF ALONE BUT
IF IT'S OUR THREE OUR FOUR I
WANT TO PUT IT RESIDENTIAL.
I DON'T WANT TO RECOMMEND A
LOWER HEIGHT THAN I CURRENTLY
OWN FOUR.
>> RIGHT.
BECAUSE THEN WE WOULD BE DOWN
ZONING WHICH IS FOR ME THESE
FALL INTO THAT CATEGORY THAT'S
VIOLATION THERE THERE WAS
AGREEMENT THAT WE DON'T WANT TO
BE DOWN ZONING BUT THERE WAS AN
UNDERSTANDING THAT THIS HAD
CREATED .
>> I THINK ALL WE NEED IS THE
FLEXIBILITY IN RESIDENTIAL THAT
WE ARE DISCUSSING WITH THESE
OTHER LAND USE CATEGORIES LIKE
WE HAVE TALKED ABOUT A TIERED
YES.
TRANSITION AND NOW POTENTIALLY
A TIERED HUB.
IT WOULD MAKE SENSE THAT THAT
WOULD FOLLOW WITH RESIDENTIAL.
>> YEAH, CAN GET A FIVE OR SIX
STOREY RESIDENTIAL.
>> I KNOW.
AND SO WHAT I WAS MADE TO
UNDERSTAND WAS THAT WE WERE
TRYING TO OPEN THE DOOR TO YES
THERE'S FLEXIBILITY IF
SOMETHING IS R THREE ARE FOR
NOW BUT IN FACT THERE ISN'T
BECAUSE THE THREE STOREY CAP
YES.
>> OK SO YEAH SO IF YOUR WORK
IS FINISHED DO YOU THINK THAT
YOU COULD WRITE A COMMUNICATION
TO THE COUNCIL AROUND THIS
PARTICULAR TOPIC?
I DO EXACTLY THIS TOPIC THAT
YOUR UNDERSTANDING WAS THAT
FROM THE INSTRUCTION THAT
YOU'VE SEEN A DRAFT OF TODAY
THAT THERE IS A DESIRE TO HAVE
SENSITIVITY TO CONTEXT WHEN
SOMETHING ZONED ARE THREE ARE
FOR BUT THAT DESIRE HAS
ACTUALLY BEEN FOR THAT THAT
FLEXIBILITY IS FORECLOSED BY
THE THREE STOREY LIMIT.
SO THERE'S THERE'S
CONTRADICTORY MESSAGE.
YES.
OK, CAN YOU BECAUSE I DON'T
THINK I CAN MAKE THAT CLEAR.
DO YOU THINK THEY MEAN FOR THE
NEXT COUNCIL MEETING WHEN
THEY'RE GOING TO REVIEW THIS
RESOLUTION?
I WOULD DEFINITELY GET THIS IN
THE HANDS OF PEOPLE SOONER THAN
MONDAY.
>> OK, SO THAT CONVERSATIONS
CAN HAPPEN BEFORE WE AT THE
TABLE ON MONDAY.
YOU KNOW?
YEAH, I THINK THAT'S WHAT MAKES
SENSE.
IT'S JUST AS WE KNOW OUR
PLANNING MANAGER'S GONE THIS
WEEK AND WE'LL BE GONE ON
MONDAY AS WELL FOR COUNCIL AND
SO WE WOULD BE DOING ALL
OF THIS I SUPPOSE WITHOUT
TALKING TO HIM FIRST.
>> IT'S INFORMATION.
OH RIGHT.
YOU'RE GIVING INFORMATION YOU
DON'T UNDERSTAND HOW TO OK, WE
CAN'T INTERPRET THIS DRAFT THAT
YOU GAVE US BECAUSE THE THING
THAT YOU GAVE US LAST TIME SAID
ONE THING AND NOW THIS IS
WANTING TO GIVE FLEXIBILITY FOR
GREATER DENSITY WHERE
CORRECT
ME CORRECT.
BE ASKING FOR IT YOU WOULD BE
POINTING OUT SOMETHING THAT
LOOKS LIKE IT'S ACOUNTER, IT'S
A CONTRADICTION AS AN EXAMPLE I
CAN PICK UP FROM THE FACT THAT
I'VE SEEN IS THE STRIP BETWEEN
GRANT AND LIBERTY THAT I REALLY
DON'T WANT TO IT DOESN'T FEEL
APPROPRIATE WHATSOEVER TO SAY
THAT'S TRANSITION BUT I DO NOT
WANT TO RECOMMEND A HEIGHT FOR
THOSE BUILDINGS THAT'S LOWER
THAN WHAT THEY'RE CURRENTLY
ZONED FOR AND WHAT I THINK
THEY'RE ACTUALLY MAYBE EVEN
BUILT FOR IN THIS EXAMPLE AS
WELL.
YEAH, THAT'S PAGE 14.
YEAH, 14 AND 15 I THINK
OTHERWISE IT HAS TO GO TO
TRANSITION BECAUSE OTHERWISE
WE'RE DOWN ZONING AND VIOLATING
OUR PRINCIPLE OF NOT DOWN
ZONING.
SO I KNOW THAT'S A LITTLE MIXED
AND I KNOW WE HAVE SEVERAL TO
GO BACK TO WOULD BE HELPFUL TO
GET SOME CLARITY FIRST AND THEN
BUT THAT WOULD MEAN WE WOULD
HAVE TO CALL I THINK THAT WE
COULD CALL A MEETING FOR THE
TWENTY EIGHTH OR WHATEVER FIFTH
TUESDAY WE HAVE TO TAKE THE
COUNCIL DIRECTION, WHATEVER
FORM IT COMES DOWN AND SO WE
HAVE TO HAVE ANOTHER MEETING TO
TALK ABOUT.
>> SO YOU'RE SCHEDULED FOR THE
5TH SO YOU WOULD BE TALKING
ABOUT THEN BUT I GUESS I'M
SUGGESTING BECAUSE IT'S THE
FIFTH TUESDAY OF THE MONTH
THERE WOULD BE NOTHING ELSE ON
THE AGENDA AND WE SHOULD FINISH
THIS.
>> I AM CHOLERIC NOT IN TOWN.
>> IS THERE TIME TO CALL A
REGULAR MEETING FOR THAT DAY
ACTUALLY TO YOUR NEXT AGENDA
ITEM FOUR IS A CALENDAR.
>> YEAH, BUT I JUST MEAN IN
PRACTICAL TERMS ARE WE ABLE TO
NOTICE A MEETING THAT COULD BE
A DECISION MAKING MEETING ON
THE 24TH?
>> SO IT'S ALREADY A MEETING.
IT WOULD JUST BE ADJUSTING YOUR
CALENDAR TO MAKE IT A REGULAR
SESSION WHERE YOU COULD YOU
COULD VOTE.
>> YEAH SORRY IT IS TWENTY
NINTH.
YEAH.
AND OK AND THE ONLY THING FOR
ME ON THAT DAY IS I ABSOLUTELY
HAVE TO GO TO A SIDEWALK
MEETING THAT WILL BE OVER AT
SEVEN SO YOU KNOW I GUESS THIS
MEETING COULD START AT FIVE
THIRTY AND THERE WOULD BE
PUBLIC COMMENT BUT I DO NOT
WANT TO MISS THIS MAPPING THING
BECAUSE IT IS THE HEART OF THE
PLAN AND THERE'S JUST NO WAY I
CAN NOT GO TO THAT BECAUSE THEY
BUILT IT.
>> I TOLD THEM I WOULD BE FREE
.
OK, JUST NO, YOU NOTIFIED US.
>> THANK YOU, COMMISSIONER.
>> SO I THINK IF EVERYONE IF
THE TABLE IS OK, IT LOOKS LIKE
IF WE CAN GET ANOTHER
RESIDENTIAL CLASSIFICATION THAT
WOULD ALLOW US FLEXIBILITY
BETWEEN THE THREE STOREY A
COUNCIL IMPOSED LIMIT AND
TRANSITION THAT WOULD HELP
RESOLVE SOME OF THE CONFLICTS
THAT WE HAVE SOME PERMISSION TO
ALTER THE TEXT ON GUIDANCE AND
GOT SOME TYPE OF DIRECTION THAT
WE CAN ALTER THE GUIDANCE ON
RESIDENTIAL TO OK TO RESOLVE
THE TENSION.
>> SO SO THERE'S TWO WAYS TO
LOOK AT THAT.
SO ARE YOU SAYING FOR AN HOUR
THREE OK SO THEN AND ONE SENSE
MICHEL IS TO AFFIRM BACK TO
COUNCIL THAT THE THREE STOREY
HEIGHT RESTRICTION IS GOING TO
BE APPLIED TO OUR ONE OR TWO
BUT IT DOES NOT FIT OUR THREE
IN OUR FOUR IN SOME CASES
TRANSITION DOES NOT FIT OUR
THREE IN OUR FOUR.
SO A NEW RESIDENTIAL DISTRICT
OR FLEXIBILITY IS NEEDED WHICH
MAY BE FOUR OR FIVE OR SIX
STORIES BASED ON WHAT ARE OURS.
YEP.
WHAT THE R'S CURRENTLY PERMIT
SO THAT WE'RE NOT VIOLATING THE
PRINCIPLE OF POTENTIAL DOWN
ZONING AS WE MOVE FORWARD.
YOU'RE GOING TO HAVE TO TELL
THE COMMISSIONER WHICH IS
ASKING TO CREATE A NEW DISTRICT
ALREADY COST TO UP TO SIX.
SO I THINK WE'VE AGREED TO
THIRTEEN.
I DON'T WANT TO YES.
>> I DO NOT WANT TO GO.
YEAH BECAUSE THIRTEEN BECAUSE
THAT THAT WOULD GIVE YOU THREE
IN EACH OF THE DISTRICTS AND A
LITTLE BIT OF FLEX.
>> I WANT ONE I WANT ONE BUT
I'M HOPING IT'S STILL ALL
RESIDENTIAL JUST TO BE CLEAR.
YES YES.
A DESCRIPTION IT SAYS IF IT'S
CURRENTLY ARE THREE OR FOUR
OF THEM THEN IT CAN GO UP CAN
GO.
>> YEP.
I JUST WANT TO CLARIFY THAT ARE
THREE ACTUALLY CAN FIT INSIDE
THE EXISTING RESIDENTS THE
THREE IS MORE DISCRETIONARY.
>> IT'S THE R FOR THAT.
YES BUT I THINK WE ALSO I KNOW
THE COUNCIL IS PREVIEWING THAT
THEY'RE GOING TO ASK US TO
REMOVE THE SUSTAINABILITY
HEIGHT BONUS BUT THAT IS STILL
IN THE UDC AND UNTIL IT'S
REMOVED FROM UDC WE NEED TO
ACCOUNT FOR IN ZONING WHICH
MEANS IF WE GO UP TO FIVE
STORIES AND A THIRTY PERCENT
HEIGHT BONUS THAT'S ANOTHER
FIFTEEN FEET SO IT CAN GO TO
SIX SO THAT THAT IS THAT'S
HOW
I'M DOING THE MATH WHEN I'M
SUGGESTING FOUR OR FIVE OR SIX
STORIES I JUST WANT TO SAY I
DON'T KNOW HOT MIKE APPLIES TO
ME BUT YES, YES, YES.
MANAGER KELLY EVERYONE GETS TO
COMMUNICATE WITH OUR COMMUNITY
SERVICES AREA ADMINISTRATOR AND
HE'S CERTAIN WE CAN GET A
COMMUNICATION TO COUNCIL.
IT JUST IT MAY BE AN EMAIL TO
COUNCILOR.
IT MAY BE ACCOMPLISHED IN A
DIFFERENT WAY THAN A PACKET
ITEM.
UM, IF THAT'S ACCEPTABLE.
>> YES.
AND AND ALSO IF YES.
>> THAT'S WONDERFUL.
THAT IS WONDERFUL.
YES.
OK, OK.
I'M SORRY.
YES I WELL AND I AM IN THE
MIDDLE OF I I'M IN THE MIDDLE
OF A LOT AND I'M TRYING TO IT
IS SO SOMETHING THOUGH THAT WE
NEED TO TALK ABOUT WHICH IS
AAGOT OH LET'S BE FOR A LOT
TONIGHT.
WHAT ARE WE GOING TO DO
I THINK WE HAVE A LIST SITES TO
TONIGHT.
ADD BUT MAYBE FIRST WE COULD
I THINK WE HAVE A LIST SITES TO
JUST FINISH WITH ONE PAGE LEFT
ADD BUT MAYBE FIRST WE COULD
.
JUST FINISH WITH ONE PAGE LEFT
>> I THOUGHT WE DID I THOUGHT
.
WE ALREADY DID SIXTEEN.
>> I THOUGHT WE DID I THOUGHT
I'M SORRY YOU STOPPED SHARING
WE ALREADY DID SIXTEEN.
YOUR SCREEN.
I'M SORRY YOU STOPPED SHARING
>> I THOUGHT YOU WERE RIGHT.
YOUR SCREEN.
THAT WAS AN INDICATION OF OUR
>> I THOUGHT YOU WERE RIGHT.
THREE AREA AND YOU HAVE A
THAT WAS AN INDICATION OF OUR
MOTION NEWPORT WEST CONDOS AND
THREE AREA AND YOU HAVE A
I AM NOT GOING TO MAKE A MOTION
MOTION NEWPORT WEST CONDOS AND
ON THIS ONE.
I AM NOT GOING TO MAKE A MOTION
OH OK.
ON THIS ONE.
I THINK IT WOULD BE VERY WEIRD.
OH OK.
THIS IS ANOTHER ONE THAT REALLY
I THINK IT WOULD BE VERY WEIRD.
NEEDS THAT RESIDENTIAL ASTON
THIS IS ANOTHER ONE THAT REALLY
BACK RIGHT UP INTO BIRD HILLS
NEEDS THAT RESIDENTIAL ASTON
DOESN'T FEEL LIKE ALL BY
BACK RIGHT UP INTO BIRD HILLS
ITSELF.
DOESN'T FEEL LIKE ALL BY
>> YES, ABSOLUTELY NOT.
ITSELF.
NO, THIS IS OK.
>> YES, ABSOLUTELY NOT.
>> SO THIS IS ANOTHER ONE
NO, THIS IS OK.
OF THE OR BOTH HERE AND I SAID
>> SO THIS IS ANOTHER ONE
WE WANTED WE WANTED TO GO INTO
OF THE OR BOTH HERE AND I SAID
THE NEW AH THAT WE ARE
WE WANTED WE WANTED TO GO INTO
REQUESTING THAT GOES UP TO SIX
THE NEW AH THAT WE ARE
STOREYS SO NOW COULD WE OH GOD
REQUESTING THAT GOES UP TO SIX
COULD WE RADLOFF WE COULD START
STOREYS SO NOW COULD WE OH GOD
WITH ADAM'S HE'S BEEN WAITING
COULD WE RADLOFF WE COULD START
OK HOLD ON WE GO DOWN THAT NO
WITH ADAM'S HE'S BEEN WAITING
ADDITIONAL MILLS COMMISSION
OK HOLD ON WE GO DOWN THAT NO
SOMETHING I THOUGHT ONCE THAT
ADDITIONAL MILLS COMMISSION
WE SKIPPED OVER THAT WE WERE
SOMETHING I THOUGHT ONCE THAT
LIKE WE'LL GET TO THOSE LATER.
WE SKIPPED OVER THAT WE WERE
ARE MANY OF THEM RESOLVED BY
LIKE WE'LL GET TO THOSE LATER.
THE THING THE COMMUNICATION.
ARE MANY OF THEM RESOLVED BY
YES RIGHT.
THE THING THE COMMUNICATION.
THAT WOULD RESOLVE MOST
YES RIGHT.
OF THOSE ONES WHERE WE'RE LIKE
THAT WOULD RESOLVE MOST
EXCEPT FOR WHAT ADAMS HAS AND
OF THOSE ONES WHERE WE'RE LIKE
WHAT ABRAMS HAS.
EXCEPT FOR WHAT ADAMS HAS AND
SO THEY BOTH HAVE SEPARATE
WHAT ABRAMS HAS.
THINGS BUT YES, OK, SO WE DON'T
SO THEY BOTH HAVE SEPARATE
WE WON'T ACTUALLY COME BACK TO
THINGS BUT YES, OK, SO WE DON'T
THEM TONIGHT.
WE WON'T ACTUALLY COME BACK TO
WE WILL COME BACK TO THEM ONCE
THEM TONIGHT.
WE KNOW WHAT COUNCIL.
WE WILL COME BACK TO THEM ONCE
>> YES.
WE KNOW WHAT COUNCIL.
OTHERWISE WE ARE GOING TO HAVE
>> YES.
TO MOVE THEM TO TRANSITION IF
OTHERWISE WE ARE GOING TO HAVE
WE HAVE A VOTE.
TO MOVE THEM TO TRANSITION IF
>> YES, I'M SORRY I IT WAS IT
WE HAVE A VOTE.
WAS REALLY WE AGAIN GOT IT
>> YES, I'M SORRY I IT WAS IT
SUPER SORRY.
WAS REALLY WE AGAIN GOT IT
>> YOU'LL HAVE TO KEEP ME
SUPER SORRY.
HONEST.
>> YOU'LL HAVE TO KEEP ME
I'M JUST BEING TRUTHFUL OK DO
HONEST.
YOU HAVE EVERYTHING THAT YOU
I'M JUST BEING TRUTHFUL OK DO
NEED FROM US FOR THOSE AND THEN
YOU HAVE EVERYTHING THAT YOU
I'M GOING TO START WITH
NEED FROM US FOR THOSE AND THEN
COMMISSIONER ADAMS AND MOVE
I'M GOING TO START WITH
ALONG THE NUMBERS BECAUSE THEY
COMMISSIONER ADAMS AND MOVE
APPARENTLY HAVE LAND USE ISSUES
ALONG THE NUMBERS BECAUSE THEY
THEY WANT TO PRESENT TO
APPARENTLY HAVE LAND USE ISSUES
STARTING WITH COMMISSIONER
THEY WANT TO PRESENT TO
ADAMS.
STARTING WITH COMMISSIONER
>> YEAH.
ADAMS.
SO I JUST WANT TO SAY SORRY
>> YEAH.
YOUR PAST 11:00 PM WE'RE NOT
SO I JUST WANT TO SAY SORRY
TAKING UP NEW BUSINESS.
YOUR PAST 11:00 PM WE'RE NOT
>> YEAH, WE'RE STILL IN THE
TAKING UP NEW BUSINESS.
SAME THING.
>> YEAH, WE'RE STILL IN THE
NICE TRY AND HOPEFULLY BE A
SAME THING.
PRETTY STRAIGHTFORWARD RIGHT SO
NICE TRY AND HOPEFULLY BE A
WE WANTED TO MAKE A MOTION TO
PRETTY STRAIGHTFORWARD RIGHT SO
CONVERT TO A DISTRICT THAT IS
WE WANTED TO MAKE A MOTION TO
ON STADIUM AND WASHTENAW ALL
CONVERT TO A DISTRICT THAT IS
THAT IS NOT GOING TO TRADER
ON STADIUM AND WASHTENAW ALL
JOE'S T WANTED TO HUB.
THAT IS NOT GOING TO TRADER
>> YEAH IS THIS WHAT ONE OF THE
JOE'S T WANTED TO HUB.
SLIDES THAT WE WENT OVER SO
>> YEAH IS THIS WHAT ONE OF THE
IT'S OK IT'S A CLARIFICATION
SLIDES THAT WE WENT OVER SO
THAT'S CALI'S MARKED BLUE AND I
IT'S OK IT'S A CLARIFICATION
THAT'S HAPPENED BUT HAPPENED
THAT'S CALI'S MARKED BLUE AND I
DOESN'T GO RIGHT TO THE IT IT
THAT'S HAPPENED BUT HAPPENED
SORT OF LOOKS LIKE IT BECAUSE
DOESN'T GO RIGHT TO THE IT IT
IT'S A BIG FIELD.
SORT OF LOOKS LIKE IT BECAUSE
IT'S A BASEBALL DIAMOND THERE.
IT'S A BIG FIELD.
YEAH.
IT'S A BASEBALL DIAMOND THERE.
OK SO BECAUSE IT GOES RIGHT TO
YEAH.
THE LAYER EXACTLY.
OK SO BECAUSE IT GOES RIGHT TO
WILL BE SLIDE TEN IT'S GOT A
THE LAYER EXACTLY.
PRETTY GOOD GOT IT.
WILL BE SLIDE TEN IT'S GOT A
>> HIGH RESOLUTION IMAGE.
PRETTY GOOD GOT IT.
>> GOT IT.
>> HIGH RESOLUTION IMAGE.
SECOND THAT MOTION I'M SORRY
>> GOT IT.
WHAT WAS THE MOTION TO MAKE
SECOND THAT MOTION I'M SORRY
THAT HUB.
WHAT WAS THE MOTION TO MAKE
OK GOT IT NOW WE HAVE A SECOND
THAT HUB.
IS THERE A DISCUSSION THE WHOLE
OK GOT IT NOW WE HAVE A SECOND
THING OR JUST THE WEDGE EAST
IS THERE A DISCUSSION THE WHOLE
OF TAPAN SO THE WHOLE THING
THING OR JUST THE WEDGE EAST
THAT'S CURRENTLY SO EASY ONE
OF TAPAN SO THE WHOLE THING
BECOMES COMES ROUND OF GOT IT
THAT'S CURRENTLY SO EASY ONE
SO THE YELLOW THERE WOULD STILL
BECOMES COMES ROUND OF GOT IT
BE YELLOW FINGERS ROUND TAPPIN
SO THE YELLOW THERE WOULD STILL
YEAH.
BE YELLOW FINGERS ROUND TAPPIN
>> YES.
YEAH.
AND WE ALREADY VOTED TO PUT
>> YES.
YELLOW S YES.
AND WE ALREADY VOTED TO PUT
>> OK THANK YOU.
YELLOW S YES.
>> OK ALL RIGHT MANAGER KELLY
>> OK THANK YOU.
OH NO I CAN JUST I CAN JUST DO
>> OK ALL RIGHT MANAGER KELLY
A SECOND VOICE IT WAS APRON'S
OH NO I CAN JUST I CAN JUST DO
OK
ALL THOSE IN FAVOR SAY I
GIVE YOU A POST OK CARRY SEVEN
ZERO OK COMMISSIONER
HAMMERSCHMIDT NO OK
COMMISSIONER ABRAMS WE'RE GOING
DOWN.
YES YOU SAID TO YOU SAID GO
DOWN I SAY THAT YOU DOING OK.
I HAVE A FEW I WOULD LIKE TO
TALK ABOUT HILL AND WASHTENAW.
>> WE RECEIVED A COMMUNICATION
ABOUT THIS FROM WILL LEAVE I
BELIEVE THIS IS THE ROCK.
>> YEAH UM SORRY LET ME FIND IT
ON MY MAP.
>> I WASN'T IT WASN'T PREPARED
SO QUICKLY.
I'M SORRY WHICH IS CURRENTLY
THE
THERE THERE'S JUST THIS
FUNNY LITTLE TRIANGLE ON THE
MAP.
I DON'T KNOW IF IT'S POSSIBLE
TO PULL IT UP.
MICHELLE THE THE FUTURE LAND
USE MAP IT'S ADJACENT IT'S KIND
OF THIS TRIANGLE ADJACENT TO
HUB AND TRANSITION I'M PULLING
THAT RIGHT NOW IS RESIDENTIAL
BUT IS IT POSSIBLE TO PULL UP
THE FUTURE LAND USE MAP?
SORRY.
YES.
THIS IS IT'S JUST SOMETHING SO
HILLO SO I THINK THE PROPOSAL
WOULD BE TO CHANGE THAT TO
TRANSITION BUT I YEAH.
CAN YOU POINT EXACTLY NOW THAT
IT'S UP ON THE SCREEN.
YEAH.
THAT TRIANGLE
SO IN THAT WAY IT
WOULD ACTUALLY BUFFER THE HUB
RIGHT?
YES.
YOU'RE TAKING THAT TRIANGLE
UNJUSTLY.
YES.
I WOULD COMPLETE A WHAT'S THE
WORD I WOULD I WOULD HUG A
TRANSITIONAL HUG AT LEAST ON
THE SIDE THAT WE SHOULD CALL.
>> YEAH, THE ROCK BUT IT'S MORE
THAN THE ROCK.
IT'S MORE THAN THE ROCK HILL
AND LIKE A SORORITY OH IS ED
LITERALLY THIS.
YEAH YEAH YEAH THAT'S RIGHT
HERE SO WE JUST MOVE ALL THE
TRANSITION WITH THIS.
THIS IS ONLY SO YOU AND YOUR
YOU'RE SUGGESTING COMMISSIONER
RAYBURN'S JUST NORTH OF HILL
NOTHING SOUTH OF HILL NOTHING
NEW SOUTH OF HILL HERE I GUESS
WE COULD CONSIDER BOTH BUT I
WAS JUST I WAS JUST SUGGESTING
NORTH OF HILL I THINK THAT'S A
VERY GOOD IDEA.
>> I WOULD NOT GO SOUTH OF HILL
RIGHT NOW.
ALL CAN YOU TURN THAT INTO A
MOTION COMMISSIONER?
I AM, YES.
SO MOVED OK.
IT'S GREAT TO TELL ME TO
ACTUALLY WRITE THAT THE MOTION
NO I WOULD WHAT I THINK YOU'RE
WHAT I'M HEARING IS EVERYTHING
NORTH OF HILL BETWEEN STATE AND
WASHTENAW THAT'S THAT'S
CURRENTLY DESIGNATED AS AS
RESIDENTIAL YOU WANT DESIGNATED
AS TRANSITION TRANSITION.
>> OK, SO CAN YOU THINK YOU
COULD SAY OK SUPPORT FROM A
COMMISSIONER ADAMS DISCUSSION
THAT MAKES SENSE TO ME ALL
THOSE IN FAVOR SAY AY AY AY ANY
OPPOSE OK SEVEN ZERO.
>> IS THERE A REASON THOUGH
THAT A ROCK THAT IS A PUBLIC
PARK IS IT JUST BECAUSE IT'S SO
TINY ON THE FUTURE LAND USE MAP
THAT YOU CAN'T SEE IT BECAUSE I
THINK IT IS LIKE A PUBLIC PARK.
>> UM THE SUPER SMALL AS SHOWN
AS YELLOW.
ALL RIGHT.
YOU KNOW ALL RIGHT.
>> DON'T WANT TO TAKE PARKS OFF
COMMISSIONER.
YOU SAID YOU HAD TO MOW NEXT
ONE AND I THINK I SHARE THIS
WITH COMMISSIONER DISH IS THE
AREA AROUND THE AAGOT PARK
WHICH IS CURRENTLY ZONED
TRANSITION I THINK BECAUSE IT
HAS SOME LIKE SEVEN PARCELS
SORRY NOT ZONED DESIGNATED ON
THE FUTURE LAND USE MAP TO BE
TRANSITION BUT I THINK IT WOULD
MAKE MORE SENSE RESIDENTIAL.
THIS IS THE ONE WE GOT FEEDBACK
SOME PUBLIC COMMENTS WE DID
CORRECT.
>> SO IT'S NORTH OF THE AMTRAK
LOGO WHERE YOU SEE THE
TRANSITION KIND OF SURROUNDED
BY WHAT LOOKS LIKE A GREEN
BASEBALL DIAMOND WORTH GO NORTH
OF THERE MICHELLE.
YEAH, RIGHT THERE.
EXACTLY.
SO THERE'S A CEMETERY ABOVE AND
THEN ARGO THE LITTLE SQUARE TO
THE LEFT OF THE OF THE MASSARO
I THINK THAT SHOULD BE
RESIDENTIAL AND NOT TRANSITION
DEFINITELY CORRECT.
OK, THERE ARE CURRENTLY
MULTIUNIT CONDO DEVELOPMENTS IN
THERE KIND OF LOW DENSITY TWO
STOREY BUT IT'S NOT SINGLE
FAMILY WHICH IS I THINK WHY
IT'S TRANSITION WHY IT GOT
TRANSLATED TO TRANSITION ARE
YOU PROPOSING TO BUT I WOULD
PROPOSE THAT IT BE RESIDENTIAL
MAYBE THIS NEW RESIDENTIAL PLUS
MAYBE WE COULD COME BACK TO IT.
YEAH.
CAN WE COME BACK TO THIS COULD
YOU MICHELLE CAN YOU MAKE A NEW
SLIDE FOR THIS ONE PLEASE.
SORRY AS I WAS TALKING I
REALIZED THAT WE SHOULD BE
DOING THIS.
>> YES OK.
AND THEN IT MAY WORK OUT TO OUR
NEW RESIDENTIAL SIX STOREY AND
I'M DONE THAT'S IT FOR ME.
OH YOU SAID YOU HAD THREE.
I DON'T I WOULD NOT NO I WOULD
NOT BE HAPPY WITH SIX STOREY
THERE IT JUST IT MAKES NO
SENSE.
I WAS KIDDING RIGHT OK.
YEAH.
OH YOU'RE NOT ALLOWED WITH A
LITTLE BIT MORE FLEXIBILITY OK
YES.
YES YEAH WE DON'T THINK THAT IS
IN HEIGHT BUT POTENTIALLY LIKE
NO UNITS I MEAN THAT IS AN
INSANE AREA BECAUSE OF ARGO.
>> YES NO I I I SPEND A LOT
OF TIME THERE AND THE NEW
CONDOS ARE COMING IN ON BOTH
ENDS WHICH ARE ALL BY RIGHT I
MEAN THEY WERE ALL BY RIGHT
YEAH.
WE DO NOT HAVE A SIDEWALK DOWN
THAT ROAD I BROUGHT THAT UP IN
THE LESS SIPI CONVERSATION IT
IS CURRENTLY DESIGNATED HOUR
FOR A VICARIOUS SEE AND THAT
WOULD SO SO WOULD ACTUALLY
COMMISSIONER DISH I'M SORRY BUT
IT PROBABLY WOULD NEED TO GO TO
THE NEW DESIGNATION UP TO SIX
STORIES BECAUSE I COULD DO
FORTY.
I THINK THAT'S THE ONLY WAY FOR
THIS NEW RESIDENTIAL I DO NOT
BUY THE IDEA THAT THIS IS JUST
A MATHEMATICAL CONVERSION.
>> I KNOW IT.
YEAH OK WELL I THERE'S JUST NO
WAY I MEAN WELL SINCE WE'RE
TALKING ABOUT IF YOU FEEL
STRONGLY LET'S JUST MAKE THE
MOST OF THEM OR DUNROSS I WOULD
LOVE TO DO THAT OK I'D LIKE TO
MOVE IT.
>> WELL FIRST LET'S MAKE SURE
THAT MICHELLE KNOWS WHAT WE'RE
TALKING ABOUT BECAUSE AH DO YOU
HAVE WE'RE NO LONGER I MEAN
THIS IS AN EXAMPLE TO BRING TO
COUNCIL.
>> THIS DOESN'T FIT WE ARE NOW
WE CAN NOT BE COMMISSIONER
ADAMS IS JUST SAYING LET'S TALK
ABOUT IT WE BOMB THE BENEFIT
OF THE DISCUSSION IF WE IF IF
THERE ARE FOLKS AT THE TABLE
WHO BELIEVE THAT THIS SHOULD
NOT THIS SHOULDN'T THEY SHOULD
JUST GO TO RESIDENTIAL
REGARDLESS OF WHAT HAPPENS
NEXT, THEN THAT'S WHAT WE
SHOULD.
>> BUT THE PROBLEM IS IS THE
UNDERLYING ZONING THAT'S THERE
CURRENTLY.
>> RIGHT.
BUT I THINK I'M HEARING COUNCIL
MEMBER JUST SAYING LIKE THIS
NEEDS TO BE RESIDENTIAL UNDER
ALL CIRCUMSTANCES.
>> WELL, IT IS GOING TO BE
RESIDENTIAL.
I THINK WHAT YOU'RE SAYING IS
THREE THREE STOREY RESIDENTIAL
NOT MORE THAN THREE STOREY I
THINK YOU'RE HEARING THAT IT'S
THAT COUNCIL MEMBER DISHES AND
DIFFERENT AS TO WHETHER A
CHANGE IS MADE DIRECTED BY
COUNCIL TO ALLOW FOR ADDITIONAL
HEIGHT FOR WHAT'S CURRENTLY
ZONED ARE FOR AND THAT NEEDS TO
BE RESIDENTIAL UNDER ANY SET
OF FACTS.
>> SO I DENHA I DON'T HAVE
SUPPORT FOR THAT BUT THAT'S
THAT'S OK.
>> YOU ALL GET WHAT I WOULD SAY
IS THAT UNTIL WE KNOW THE
DETAILS ABOUT THE TWO OR MORE
RESIDENTIAL ZONES I'M I'M HAPPY
TO WAIT.
>> I JUST I HEARD SO I WOULD
SAY LIKE I SUPPORT OF BEING
RESIDENTIAL BUT WHETHER IT'S
RESIDENTIAL A, B OR C I DON'T
KNOW.
>> RIGHT.
AND AND I'D LIKE TO SEE WHAT
THE CURRENT ZONING IS A LITTLE
BIT CLOSER UP THERE.
SO I KNOW WHERE TO DRAW RIGHT
DOWN TO THAT.
THAT'S WHAT I WAS GETTING MORE
CLARITY FROM MICHELLE LORD
KNOWS I DON'T I DON'T THINK I
WOULD BE PREPARED TO VOTE
BECAUSE WE'RE NOT ACTUALLY
SEEING IT LIKE WE SAW THE OTHER
SIXTEEN.
BUT I THINK OBVIOUSLY WHEN IT
COMES BACK THERE SOUNDS LIKE
THERE WILL BE SUPPORT FOR
SOMETHING.
SO MICHELLE, IS IT OK?
>> DO YOU HAVE A TASK FOR THAT
TO CREATE A SLIDE WITH YES.
FOR THAT AND USE IT AS AN
EXAMPLE I THINK WITH COUNCIL
HAS IT AS ANOTHER EXAMPLE.
>> YEAH, OK.
AND I DO THINK THERE ARE THESE
LITTLE SEA DISTRICTS SCATTERED
ABOUT WHERE THERE USED TO BE
TRANSIT OR THERE USED TO BE
THIS OR THERE'S SOME IN MY
NEIGHBORHOOD AND THAT CAN BUMP
THESE UP IN A WAY THAT IT JUST
HASN'T PLAYED OUT.
>> THERE'S ALSO COTTAGE HOUSING
THERE.
YEAH, IT'S VERY OLD BUT IT IS
WHAT WE WISH WE COULD HAVE MORE
OF .
>> YEAH OK SO WE I THINK WE ARE
ABLE TO CONCLUDE ELEVEN B
UNLESS YOU HAVE MORE THAT'S A
DIFFERENT THAT'S A YEAH YEAH.
>> OK SO WE ARE STILL IN ELEVEN
SO I DON'T THINK IT'S ACTUALLY
NEW BUSINESS BECAUSE WE ARE IN
ELEVEN AND THEN WE'LL TAKE A
VOTE TO DO THE PUBLIC COMMENT
WHICH I THINK WE JUST HAVE TO
DO BECAUSE QUESTIONS ARE BEFORE
WE MOVE OUT OF ELEVEN B
REMAINING COMMENTS ARE GOING TO
BE TAKEN UP AT THE NEXT MEETING
THAT WHAT WE'VE JUST AGREED TO
WE'RE DONE TALKING ABOUT THAT
WE ARE NOT DONE OK YES OK.
UM CURRENTLY AUGUST 5TH IS YOUR
DESIGNATED IN THE LAST MEETING
FOR THIS DRAFT.
>> OK THANK YOU.
UNLESS WE CHANGE AND AMEND
DIFFERENT THEN WE HAVE MORE
TIME AFTER THAT AND TALK ABOUT
PAGE ONE 12 OR 15 AT THAT TIME.
>> YEAH THERE'S OTHER STUFF ON
THE AGENDA.
I MEAN YEAH THERE ARE TWO
PUBLIC HEARINGS THEN I WON'T BE
THERE WAS THERE WAS SOME
DISCUSSION ABOUT MAKING A
MEETING LATER THIS MONTH.
>> I MEAN YES THAT WOULD COME
UP NEXT IN ELEVEN WE HAVE TWO
MEETINGS TO TALK ABOUT THE PLAN
AT DEPENDS ON WHAT WE DECIDE
TONIGHT.
>> WE'VE GOT IT.
OK, ARE YOU OK?
>> YEAH, I'M SORRY.
I WAS ACTUALLY MICHELLE I
SHOULD HAVE USED THE NAME WHEN
I ASKED ARE YOU OK MICHELLE?
ARE YOU OK WITH DID YOU GET
EVERYTHING THAT YOU NEED?
YES OK THANK YOU.
THAT WAS A GOOD DISCUSSION
EVERYONE REALLY APPRECIATE YOUR
PARTICIPATION AND YOUR PRESENCE
WITH THAT WE WILL NOW MOVE TO
ELEVEN C THE TWENTY TWENTY FIVE
CALENDAR REVIEW AND MANAGER
KELLY.
YEAH SO THIS WOULD BE A REQUEST
TO MODIFY YOUR COMMISSION
CALENDAR TO CREATE TO UPDATE
YOUR AUGUST 5TH MEETING TIME TO
FIVE THIRTY PM START TO UPDATE
THE AUGUST 19TH MEETING TO THE
SAME AND THEN I ACTUALLY DO
HAVE A CORRECTION ON THE AUGUST
MEETING IT WOULD BE AUGUST
TWENTY NINTH AND NOT THE TWENTY
NOT TWENTY SIXTH ACTUALLY I'M
SORRY IT WOULD TWENTY SIX
TWENTY THREE NOW YEAH IT WOULD
BE TWENTY SIX YEAH.
>> JULY 20 I'M SORRY.
>> SO YOU'RE ADDING A MEETING.
YES.
OK SO IS I INCORRECTLY STATED
IT WAS AN EXISTING MEETING
EARLIER SO YOU WANT TO ADD TO
TUESDAY JULY TWENTY NINTH WITH
A FIVE THIRTY START.
>> YES OK DOES THAT THIRD
BULLET WOULD CHANGE TO AND WE
HAVE NOTHING IT WOULD JUST BE
STRUCK AND YOU COULD ADD YOU
DON'T WANT BOTH.
UM THIS WAS THE AUGUST TWENTY
SIX MEETING APOLOGIES IF
THERE'S A LOT CALVIN MATT UH NO
YOU I THINK WE WOULD WANT TO
I'M SORRY KEEP THAT BULLET AND
ALSO HAVE AN ADD.
YEP JILLI.
TWENTY NINTH MEETING ON THE
FIFTH TUESDAY FIVE THIRTY PM
AND THEN WHAT.
>> SO THE THE TWELFTH WOULD
REMAIN A WORKING SESSION SO NO
CHANGES THERE.
WE WILL BE HAVING SINCE THAT IS
NOT A CONVENIENT DATE FOR A
RETREAT IT WILL BE A SKYPE
PRESENTATION TO KEEP ON TRACK
WITH MISS COMMENTS PARENTAL
LEAVE.
OK SO THE NEW SCHEDULE WOULD BE
TUESDAY JULY TWENTY NINTH AT
FIVE THIRTY TUESDAY AUGUST 5TH
AT FIVE THIRTY TUESDAY AUGUST
19TH AT FIVE THIRTY AND THEN
KEEPING AUGUST TWENTY SIX AS A
REGULAR MEETING AS OPPOSED TO A
COMMITTEE BECAUSE RIGHT NOW IT
SAYS REPLACE THE HOLD WITH A
REGULAR YES.
>> SO INSTEAD OF IN YOUR
MEETING SCHEDULE AS A COMMITTEE
MEETING THAT WOULD CHANGE TO A
REGULAR MEETING STARTING AT
FIVE THIRTY PM AND IT WOULD BE
BOLDED BUT IF I CAN JUST
CLARIFY MICHELLE JUST SAID THAT
OUR LAST COMP PLAN MEETING
WOULD BE THE FIFTH WELL SO IF
YOU REMEMBER WE HAD SCHEDULED
TWO MEETINGS FOR THIS SECOND
ROUND ONE WAS CANCELED THAT
THEY WERE PUSHED BACK AND THEN
WHEN CHARLIE WAS CHAIR HE ASKED
FOR A THIRD MEETING, OK?
AND SO THAT WAS AUGUST 5TH.
>> SO NOW THE NINETEEN NINTH IF
WE'D LIKE YEAH.
>> TWENTY SO I GUESS THE FIRST
FOUR OK SO WE WOULD SO WE'RE
NOW TARGETING AUGUST 26 TO BE
DONE WITH THE SECOND DRAFT SO
WE HAVE UP TO FOUR MEETINGS TO
DO THAT FIFTH TIME SO BACK TO
THE FIFTH OK SO TWO I GOT
LOADINGS IF YOU IF YOU CHOOSE
TO HAVE THE IF YOU CHOOSE TO
ADD THE TWENTY NINTH OF JULY
THEN YOU WOULD BE ADDING AN
ADDITIONAL MEETING AND THEN THE
AUGUST 5TH IS CURRENTLY SO YOU
STILL WANT TO HOLD AUGUST 5TH
AS SO THEN THE TWENTY SIXTH.
>> SO WHY DO WE NEED THE TWENTY
SIX.
WHY DO YOU MIGHT HAVE BEEN A
MISTAKE SO YOU HAVE MORE
MEETINGS YOU COULD ADJUST THE
CALENDAR IT MIGHT HAVE SO I
WOULD JUST STRIKE JUST RIGHT
NOW I THINK WE SHOULD STRIKE IT
BECAUSE IT DOESN'T SOUND LIKE
NO IT IS THAT OK THAT IS MORE
THAN NINE STARTS ON THE
NINETEENTH AND THE TWENTY
SIXTH.
DOES THAT DO THEY NEED TO BE
FIVE THIRTY STARTS.
>> YEAH I'VE READ OFF
EVERYTHING AS A FIVE THIRTY
START SO THE TWENTY NINTH THE
FIFTH THE NINETEENTH RIGHT BUT
IF WE ALREADY HAVE SUBMITTED
THE PLAN DO WE NEED TO DO FIVE
THIRTY STARTS TO REVIEW ANOTHER
DRAFT.
>> NO TWO OF THEM ARE.
>> SO YOU'RE STILL FINISHING
THE SECOND DRAFT
AS OF AUGUST
5TH I ASSUMED THAT THE
NINETEENTH AND THE TWENTY SIXTH
ARE TO LOOK AT NEW MATERIAL
REVISED MATERIAL.
>> IS THAT NOT SHE'S ASKED TO
REVISE THE ENTIRE BOLVAR
RIGHT.
>> IT'S A WEEK OR TWO BUT IT
WAS THE IDEA TO LOOK AT
ANYTHING NEW.
THE NINETEENTH OF TWENTY SIX
ARE THOSE ARE JUST REGULAR
MEETINGS AND STUFF.
WELL THEN THEY SHOULD THEN WE
DON'T NEED FIGHT OK SO WE'RE
GOING TO MOVE THAT TO I THINK
THAT THE RATIONALE IN
DISCUSSING WITH MANAGER LETTER
EARLIER WAS THAT THERE MAY BE
ADDITIONAL DISCUSSION NEEDED ON
THE BASIS OF THE IMMINENT
COUNCIL RESOLUTION THAT YOU
WOULD WANT THAT TIME TO TALK
THROUGH HOW THAT AFFECTS YOUR
DRAFT AND BUT THAT DIDN'T TAKE
INTO CONSIDERATION THE ADDING
THE MEETING ON THE 29TH.
THIS WAS ASSUMING THAT WE WOULD
NOT HAVE THE MEETING ON THE
TWENTY NINTH.
>> I THINK SO.
OK, SO I THINK IT WAS ASSUMING
THAT OH SO THE CURRENT SCHEDULE
WAS TO FINISH BY THE FIFTH I
THINK.
YEP.
MANAGER ADDED THESE EXTRA DATES
AS BACKUPS.
>> OK SO TO BE CLEAR WE ARE
AGREED TO AT NEXT TUESDAY OR
THE LAST TUESDAY IN JULY THE
TWENTY NINTH AS A NEW
COMPREHENSIVE PLAN MEETING.
OK MICHELLE YOU WANT TO DELIVER
OUR SECOND DRAFT TO THE
CONSULTANTS ON AUGUST 5TH IS
THAT CORRECT?
>> SURE, YEAH.
DOES THE TABLE AGREE WITH THAT
SCHEDULE OR DO YOU WANT TO PUSH
THAT DELIVERY DATE BACK TO THE
NINETEENTH GOT MR MILLS WHAT I
TOOK FROM OR WHAT I WANT TO
TEST AN ASSERTION ASSUMPTION IS
THAT EVEN IF WE GIVE SOMETHING
TO THE CONSULTANTS ON THE SIX
THAT IS BASED ON THESE MANY
EDITS FROM THIS ROUND IF WE
ONCE WE GET ADDITIONAL
DIRECTION FROM COUNCIL MAYBE WE
MIGHT NEED TO IDENTIFY BEFORE
THEY EVEN GIVE US DRAFT THREE
THE PLACES WHERE WE KNOW WE'RE
GOING TO NEED TO MAKE CHANGES
IS THAT THE IDEA BEHIND GIVING
THEM EDITS FOR ROUND TWO BUT
PREPARING FOR WHAT WE WANT TO
DO FOR ROUND THREE BECAUSE THE
CONSULTANTS ARE GOING TO BE
TAKING COUNCIL'S DIRECTION.
IT'S GOING TO BE US THAT NEED
TO TELL THE CONSULTANTS TO TAKE
COUNCIL'S DIRECTION.
>> WE'RE RIGHT IN COUNCIL
DIRECTION NEXT WEEK BUT I'M NOT
SURE GOING THROUGH THE REST
OF THE THINGS THAT WE STILL
NEED TO DISCUSS, SOME OF WHICH
MAY BE ELUCIDATED BY COUNCIL
DIRECTION BUT SOME OF WHICH
MIGHT NOT.
>> RIGHT.
MAYBE THAT WILL REQUIRE MORE
THAN TO MEET THE CURRENT HOPE
IS THAT IN TWO MORE MEETINGS WE
CAN GET THROUGH IT.
BUT I THINK THAT'S WHY THERE'S
ADDITIONAL MEETINGS WERE ADDED
BECAUSE WHO KNOWS I'M MURPHY'S
LAW PERSON AND I WOULD RATHER
HAVE THEM ON MY CALENDAR OK AND
THEN CANCEL THEM IF WE DON'T
NEED THEM.
>> OK, I BELIEVE US BUT I THINK
THE SCHEDULE SHOULD BE THE
NINETEENTH NOT THE SIXTH.
THE DELIVERY FOR THE TWENTIETH,
NOT THE SIXTH BECAUSE WE MIGHT
AS WELL WHY GIVE IT TO THEM IF
WE'RE TRYING TO INCORPORATE THE
OTHER HAND I THINK YEAH WE CAN
PLAN FOR THAT I GUESS WE'LL
JUST DEPEND ON HOW FAR YOU HAVE
SO YOU'LL YOU'LL BE FLEXIBLE
BASED ON THE TWO MEETINGS THE
TWENTY NINTH IN THE FIFTH OK SO
OUR NEW SCHEDULE IS NOW TUESDAY
JULY TWENTY NINTH AT FIVE PM
THIRTY FIVE THIRTY TUESDAY
AUGUST 5TH AT FIVE THIRTY
TUESDAY AUGUST 19TH AT FIVE
THIRTY AND WE'RE STRIKING THE
AUGUST TWENTY SIX MEETING
CORRECT.
>> I'M AND THEN WE'RE CANCELING
THE TWENTY FIRST FOR THE
INDEPENDENT COMMUNITY POLICE
OVERSIGHT COMMISSION AND THEN
WE'RE MOVING NOVEMBER 4TH TO
WEDNESDAY FOR ELECTION
ACTIVITY.
>> THIS WAS FROM THE CLERK
ISN'T THERE NOT ACTUALLY AN
ELECTION DATE?
>> WE HAVE NOTHING ON THE THEY
ARE IN THE THROES SCHEDULING
ONE AND THEY'VE ASKED US TO
MOVE IT BACK ON WITH CAN PULL
UP THE EMAIL AGAIN.
>> GREAT.
SO THE IF I GUESS I CAN READ IT
.
SO I MOVED TO UPDATE THE
PLANNING COMMISSION MEETING
CALENDAR TO REFLECT THE CHANGES
TO JULY AUGUST, OCTOBER AND
NOVEMBER MEETINGS AS PRESENTED
AND TONIGHT AMENDED PACKET
THREE I THINK IT WAS
COMMISSIONER ABRAM'S SECONDED
TO HAVE REMOVED IT.
WELL I THINK I CAN ACTUALLY
MOVE HERE.
>> NO THERE THERE WAS A SECOND
YOU'RE MOVING IT.
>> I MOVED IT AND COMMISSIONER
FOR THE WHOLE NIGHT I KNOW THE
DEVIA THE WIGGLE ROOM IN AROUND
THE TIME OF NIGHT WHERE WE WERE
GOING ABOUT ELEVEN THIRTY AND
ERM JUST GOES I DON'T KNOW ALL
THE TIME OK I REALLY APPRECIATE
THAT BACK AND FORTH WITH YOU
MANAGER KELLY HOT MIKE.
>> SO IT IS THIS IS THIS IS
LOVELY.
WE'RE GOING TO HAVE A WONDERFUL
YEAR TOGETHER MAYBE JUST ONE BY
FIVE I CAN I SEE YOUR WORDS
PLEASE.
ALL THOSE IN FAVOR SAY HI.
HI VIDEO POST IT PASSES
SEVENTIES.
THIS BRINGS US TO ITEM NUMBER
TWELVE PUBLIC COMMENT.
THIS IS A SECOND OPPORTUNITY
FOR INDIVIDUALS TO SPEAK UP TO
THREE MINUTES ON ANY ISSUE.
WE'LL FIRST HEAR FROM THOSE
THAT ARE PRESENT IN THE CHAMBER
THEN REMOTE PARTICIPANTS TO
SPEAK REMOTELY PLEASE PRESS
STAR NINE ON PHONE OR USE THE
RACE HAND FEATURE ON ZOOME FOR
PHONE ACCESS CALL EIGHT SEVEN
SEVEN EIGHT FIVE THREE FIVE TO
FOUR SEVEN AND INNER MEETING
IDX NINE SEVEN SEVEN SIX SIX
THREE FOUR ONE TWO TWO SIX.
CITY STAFF WILL IDENTIFY
CALLERS BY THE LAST THREE
DIGITS OF THEIR PHONE NUMBER OR
BY NAME ON ZOOME YOU WILL HEAR
AN ANNOUNCEMENT WHEN IT'S YOUR
TURN TO SPEAK PLEASE ENSURE
THAT YOU ARE IN A QUIET AREA
AND MUTE ANY BACKGROUND NOISE
FOR ALL PARTICIPANTS WHETHER IN
THE CHAMBER OR ON ZOOME PLEASE
STATE YOUR NAME AND ADDRESS AT
THE BEGINNING OF YOUR COMMENTS.
IS THERE ANYONE PRESENT WHO
WOULD LIKE TO SPEAK AT THIS
TIME?
OK OK SEEING NONE DO WE HAVE
ONLINE PARTICIPANTS?
WE DO.
THERE ARE CURRENTLY THREE HANDS
RAISED MARK SERBO YOU HAVE
PERMISSION TO USE PLANNING
PERMISSION.
>> WELL THIS MUST BE ABOUT
TWENTY SEVENTEEN FERESTEN
THAT'S A HOUSE THAT WAS
PICTURED ON SLIDE 14.
I EMAILED YOU THIS WEEKEND
ASKING YOU TO BUT THE AREA
YOU'RE JUST CUTTING INTO THAT
TRANSITION ZONE FOR A NUMBER
OF REASONS OUTLINED IN MY EMAIL
ADDITIONAL REASONS RIGHT NOW
THOSE APARTMENT COMPLEXES ARE
THREE STORIES TALL AND HAVE
TONS EMPTY GRASSY AREA
MONOCULTURE GRASS AND I WOULD
LOVE TO SEE MORE HOUSING GOING
OH AND A BUNCH OF EMPTY PARKING
LOTS THAT AREN'T FULLY
UTILIZED.
SO I THINK THE OWNER OF THAT
PERSON WOULD PROBABLY BE HAPPY
TO PUT IN MORE HOUSING ON THAT
EXISTING LAW IF THEY WERE ABLE
TO AND MAKE MORE MONEY BECAUSE
THEY COULD RENT TO MORE PEOPLE.
SIMILARLY JUST NORTH
OF WESTWOOD APARTMENTS ARE SOME
CHARLETON APARTMENTS.
I DON'T KNOW THE CONDITION
OF CHILDHOOD APARTMENTS BUT I'M
LOOKING AT GOOGLE MAPS AND THE
ROOF IS COVERED IN RUST AND SO
I THINK THERE'S A NON-ZERO
CHANCE THAT DEVELOPMENT NEEDS
TO GET REBUILT AT SOME POINT.
AND AGAIN, IF WE COULD PERMIT
HIGHER DENSITY I WOULD LOVE TO
SEE A WE'LL ALSO KNOW THAT THE
ON SUNDAY THEY SPENT FOUR HOURS
CHATTING WITH MY NEIGHBOR WOULD
PUT THE PLANS ON WITH A LOVELY
DISCUSSION.
WE'RE ON VERY GOOD TERMS AND WE
FUNDAMENTALLY DISAGREE ON OUR
ON OUR VALUES.
MY NEIGHBOR SAID THAT, YOU
KNOW, FOLKS WHO CHOOSE TO BE
TEACHERS OR SOCIAL WORKERS, YOU
KNOW, THEY MADE A CHOICE TO
HAVE A JOB THAT DOESN'T MAKE AS
MUCH MONEY AND THEY CAN LIVE IN
SC OR IN THE TOWNSHIPS.
THEY ALSO SAID THAT THEY
WOULDN'T WANT TO VOTE FOR
ANYBODY ON THE CITY COUNCIL SO
THERE SHOULDN'T BE ANY WORRIES
ABOUT LOSING VOTES FROM PEOPLE
WHO AREN'T ALIGNED WITH THE
CITY'S VALUES IN THIS
COMPREHENSIVE LAND.
AGAIN, I'M ON GOOD TERMS WITH
THESE NEIGHBORS AND WE WILL
CONTINUE TO TALK ABOUT THESE
KINDS OF ISSUES BUT WE DON'T
NEED TO KEEP MOVING THE
GOALPOSTS AND STOPPING OUR CITY
FROM WELCOMING MORE NEIGHBORS
TO TRY TO APPEASE PEOPLE WHO
DON'T WANT ANY CHANGE AT ALL.
>> I THINK I'LL LEAVE IT THERE.
I REALLY HOPE THAT YOU ALLOW MY
NEXT OR NEIGHBORS TO WELCOME
MORE NEIGHBORS.
>> THANK YOU.
THANK YOU.
OUR NEXT CALLER, OUR PHONE
NUMBER ENDING IN FIVE THREE
FOUR YOU PERMISSION TO ADDRESS
PLANNING COMMISSION.
HELLO STOLLBERG AGAIN CALLING
FROM ONE TO THE OTHER TO TRADE
FOR STREET IN LOWERTOWN ANN
ARBOR.
A COUPLE OF THINGS I THINK
PRETTY EVIDENT WHY YOU SUPPORT
THE PLAN WE SEE FROM THE
DETAILED DISCUSSION TONIGHT
WHICH IS A VERY GOOD DISCUSSION
TONIGHT THE ISSUES THAT ARE
COMING UP THAT ARE STILL QUITE
UNRESOLVED, THE NEED FOR
EXPANDING IN DIFFERENT
CATEGORIES, LIVING THINGS UP
DIFFERENT DIRECTIONS.
COUNCIL WANTS TO GIVE YOU A
RESOLUTION
WHICH DOESN'T EXIST
YET.
BUT YOU KNOW YOU'RE ASKING FOR
DIRECTION FROM PLANNING STAFF
TO TELL COUNCIL WHAT IT IS YOU
WANT WHILE COUNCIL IS GOING TO
TELL YOU SOMETHING THEY WANT
MESSY BUT WE COULD GET THERE
BUT WE COULD PROBABLY GET THERE
WITH A BETTER RESULT IF WE
ACTUALLY TOOK THE TIME TO DO IT
RIGHT.
I'LL RESPOND TO THE LAST CALLER
AS SOMEBODY WHO'S BEEN VERY
INVOLVED IN THE LAST THIRTY
YEARS IN CREATING AND PROVIDING
AFFORDABLE AND WORKFORCE
HOUSING AND WHO IS ONE OF THE
BIG SUPPORTERS OF THE AND OF A
COMMUNITY INTEREST RIGHT NOW
WHICH DOES WANT TO WELCOME
TEACHERS ALSO WORKERS,
FIREFIGHTERS, POLICEMEN,
HOSPITAL WORKERS ETC. LIKE THE
LAST GENTLEMAN JUST SAID THAT
THE IMMEDIATE COMMUNITY
INTEREST IS A WAY THAT CAN
EFFECTIVELY WELCOME THOSE
PEOPLE HOUSING FOR THOSE PEOPLE
TO HERE THE PLAN AS PROPOSED TO
DO THAT THE PLAN AS PROPOSED
FAILS TO PROVIDE ANYTHING THAT
WOULD BE ACHIEVABLE PRICED FOR
THOSE PEOPLE, WHETHER IT'S FOR
RENT FOR PURCHASE.
THE PLAN DOESN'T CREATE
AFFORDABILITY PLAN CREATES
EXPENSIVE HOUSING THAT THOSE
PEOPLE CAN'T PAY FOR IT SO THEY
WILL LIVE IN THE TOWNSHIPS OR
FURTHER OUT BECAUSE THE PLAN
ISN'T PROVIDING A SOLUTION FOR
THEM.
SO LET'S GO BACK TO EQUITY THAT
I BROUGHT UP EARLIER AND I GAVE
A SIMPLE EXAMPLE.
YEAH, OF COURSE I KNOW YOU KNOW
THIRTY FEET FULL OF IT NOW BUT
THERE'S OPTIONS.
THAT'S WHAT I WAS TRYING TO GET
AT AND THERE'S DIFFERENT PARTS
AND DIFFERENT GROUPS OF PEOPLE
AND WE NEED TO RECOGNIZE THAT
IF WE'RE GOING TO HAVE A PLAN
THAT SAYS IT'S ONE OF THE
FOUNDATIONS THAT WE NEED TO
RECOGNIZE THE DIFFERENT IMPACTS
WITH DIFFERENT PEOPLE, SOME
OF THAT WORKED ITS WAY INTO THE
DISCUSSION.
THAT'S GOOD.
I WOULD ENCOURAGE YOU TO KEEP
THINKING ABOUT EQUITY.
WHAT DOES EQUITY MEAN TO ALL
OF US GAVE US SOME EXAMPLES
OF THAT IN THE FIRST PART
OF THE PUBLIC COMMENT.
BUT I REALLY THINK THE EQUITY
PORTION OF THIS PLAN IS GROSSLY
LACKING IN TERMS OF THE
DISCUSSION THAT GOES ON.
SO I HOPE PEOPLE CAN THINK
ABOUT THAT BETWEEN NOW AND THE
NEXT MEETING.
I APPRECIATE YOU.
>> THANK YOU.
THANK YOU.
OUR NEXT CALLER IS ALEX LOEWER
PERMISSION TO ADDRESS THE
PLANNING COMMISSION.
>> HI THIS IS ALEX GO 233 TO
PITTSFIELD BOULEVARD AS I SAID
BEFORE BEGINNING OF OUR TONIGHT
I REALLY WOULD LIKE IT IF YOU
GUYS WOULD YOU KNOW, LOOK AT
PITTSVILLE VILLAGE AND MAKE A
TRANSITION DISTRICT.
IT DOES NOT MAKE SENSE FOR
PITTSVILLE VILLAGE TO BE TO BE
LOW LOW DENSITY RESIDENTIAL.
>> I UNDERSTAND THE CONCERNS
OF MAKING SAYING OH WELL THIS
IS AFFORDABLE HOUSING.
THAT'S THAT'S LITERALLY WHY I
LIVE HERE BECAUSE IT'S ONE
OF THE FEW PLACES IN THE CITY
WHERE I CAN AFFORD TO THE BUT
FOOTHILL VILLAGE IS PRIMARILY
OWNER OCCUPIED AND MAKING US
TRANSITION RATHER RATHER THAN
LOW DENSITY RESIDENTIAL WILL
WILL MEAN THAT WE CAN ADD MORE
OF PITTSFIELD VILLAGE RATHER
THAN BEING LIMITED LIMITED TO
WHAT WE'VE GOT WE HAVE SPACES
THAT ARE APPROPRIATE FOR
PUTTING ADDITIONAL HOUSING.
IT WOULD STILL REQUIRE THE
PITTSVILLE VILLAGE TO AGREE ON
IT WHICH WHICH MEANS THAT WE
ARE HIGHLY, HIGHLY UNLIKELY TO
GET ANY VOTES TO DEMOLISH
ANYWAY PITTSVILLE VILLAGE NOR
WOULD I WANT THAT I WANT MORE
HITSVILLE VILLAGE AND MAKING A
TRANSITION DISTRICT IS THE WAY
TO DO THAT AS TO THE CITY
COUNCIL.
SO I REALLY HOPE THAT TONIGHT'S
DISCUSSION WILL SHOW CITY
COUNCIL JUST HOW INAPPROPRIATE
THE MICROMANAGE THE
COMPREHENSIVE PLANNING PROCESS
IS JUST MAKING THINGS HARDER,
SLOWER AND WORSE.
SO I WOULD ASK CITY COUNCIL
THAT INSTEAD OF PUTTING IN MORE
AND MORE AND MORE RESOLUTIONS
WHAT THEY WOULD DO IS IS
INSTEAD REPEAL THEIR PREVIOUS
RESOLUTION AND LET THE PLANNING
COMMISSION DO THE PLANNING WORK
.
>> THANK YOU.
THANK YOU.
THERE ARE NO ADDITIONAL CALLERS
EXCELLENT.
I WILL CLOSE PUBLIC COMMENT AND
MOVE ON TO ITEM NUMBER
THIRTEEN.
A COMMISSION PROPOSED BUSINESS
SEEING NONE.
CAN I HAVE A MOTION TO DURING
THE MEETING MOVE BY ABRAM'S AND
THEN SECONDED BY MILLS.
>> WE ARE ADJOURNED REMOVED